   Chapter 1: A Day of Very Low Probability

   Disclaimer: J. K. Rowling owns Harry Potter, and no one owns the
   methods of rationality.

   This fic is widely considered to have really hit its stride starting at
   around Chapter 5. If you still don't like it after Chapter 10, give up.

   Please visit HPMOR DOT COM for:

   * Easy email notification system, RSS feed, and Twitter feed for new
   chapters;
   * Current Author's Notes and progress updates;
   * Lovely fan-made book-style PDF version;
   * Ad-free mirror of the text;
   * ePUB and MOBI e-texts;
   * Ongoing podcast of the story;
   * Fan art in vast quantities;
   * Cameo list (characters named after fan artists);
   * Fan-fanfiction of this fanfiction;
   * Fan music, songs, and animations;
   * Fan translations;
   * The OKCupid keyword for HPMOR readers;
   * Links to TV Tropes page and discussion forum;
   * Trigger warnings page (warnings about possible traumatic associations
   for some readers; to avoid spoilers for most readers, there are no
   warnings inside the main story);
   * How to learn everything the main character knows;
   * Open job positions at a related nonprofit;
   * And ever so much more.

   Reviews make me happy. You can leave reviews on any chapter, no login
   required, and there's no need to finish reading it all before you start
   reviewing chapters - but do please leave at most one review per
   chapter.

   This is not a strict single-point-of-departure fic - there exists a
   primary point of departure, at some point in the past, but also other
   alterations. The best term I've heard for this fic is "parallel
   universe".

   The text contains many clues: obvious clues, not-so-obvious clues,
   truly obscure hints which I was shocked to see some readers
   successfully decode, and massive evidence left out in plain sight. This
   is a rationalist story; its mysteries are solvable, and meant to be
   solved.

   The pacing of the story is that of serial fiction, i.e., that of a TV
   show running for a predetermined number of seasons, whose episodes are
   individually plotted but with an overall arc building to a final
   conclusion.

   The story has been corrected to British English up to Ch. 17, and
   further Britpicking is currently in progress (see the /HPMOR
   subreddit).

   All science mentioned is real science. But please keep in mind that,
   beyond the realm of science, the views of the characters may not be
   those of the author. Not everything the protagonist does is a lesson in
   wisdom, and advice offered by darker characters may be untrustworthy or
   dangerously double-edged.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of silver, a fraction of a
   line...

   (black robes, falling)

   ...blood spills out in litres, and someone screams a word.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Every inch of wall space is covered by a bookcase. Each bookcase has
   six shelves, going almost to the ceiling. Some bookshelves are stacked
   to the brim with hardback books: science, maths, history, and
   everything else. Other shelves have two layers of paperback science
   fiction, with the back layer of books propped up on old tissue boxes or
   lengths of wood, so that you can see the back layer of books above the
   books in front. And it still isn't enough. Books are overflowing onto
   the tables and the sofas and making little heaps under the windows.

   This is the living-room of the house occupied by the eminent Professor
   Michael Verres-Evans, and his wife, Mrs. Petunia Evans-Verres, and
   their adopted son, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.

   There is a letter lying on the living-room table, and an unstamped
   envelope of yellowish parchment, addressed to Mr. H. Potter in
   emerald-green ink.

   The Professor and his wife are speaking sharply at each other, but they
   are not shouting. The Professor considers shouting to be uncivilised.

   "You're joking," Michael said to Petunia. His tone indicated that he
   was very much afraid that she was serious.

   "My sister was a witch," Petunia repeated. She looked frightened, but
   stood her ground. "Her husband was a wizard."

   "This is absurd!" Michael said sharply. "They were at our wedding -
   they visited for Christmas -"

   "I told them you weren't to know," Petunia whispered. "But it's true.
   I've seen things -"

   The Professor rolled his eyes. "Dear, I understand that you're not
   familiar with the sceptical literature. You may not realise how easy it
   is for a trained magician to fake the seemingly impossible. Remember
   how I taught Harry to bend spoons? If it seemed like they could always
   guess what you were thinking, that's called cold reading -"

   "It wasn't bending spoons -"

   "What was it, then?"

   Petunia bit her lip. "I can't just tell you. You'll think I'm -" She
   swallowed. "Listen. Michael. I wasn't - always like this -" She
   gestured at herself, as though to indicate her lithe form. "Lily did
   this. Because I - because I begged her. For years, I begged her. Lily
   had always been prettier than me, and I'd... been mean to her, because
   of that, and then she got magic, can you imagine how I felt? And I
   begged her to use some of that magic on me so that I could be pretty
   too, even if I couldn't have her magic, at least I could be pretty."

   Tears were gathering in Petunia's eyes.

   "And Lily would tell me no, and make up the most ridiculous excuses,
   like the world would end if she were nice to her sister, or a centaur
   told her not to - the most ridiculous things, and I hated her for it.
   And when I had just graduated from university, I was going out with
   this boy, Vernon Dursley, he was fat and he was the only boy who would
   talk to me. And he said he wanted children, and that his first son
   would be named Dudley. And I thought to myself, what kind of parent
   names their child Dudley Dursley? It was like I saw my whole future
   life stretching out in front of me, and I couldn't stand it. And I
   wrote to my sister and told her that if she didn't help me I'd rather
   just -"

   Petunia stopped.

   "Anyway," Petunia said, her voice small, "she gave in. She told me it
   was dangerous, and I said I didn't care any more, and I drank this
   potion and I was sick for weeks, but when I got better my skin cleared
   up and I finally filled out and... I was beautiful, people were nice to
   me," her voice broke, "and after that I couldn't hate my sister any
   more, especially when I learned what her magic brought her in the end
   -"

   "Darling," Michael said gently, "you got sick, you gained some weight
   while resting in bed, and your skin cleared up on its own. Or being
   sick made you change your diet -"

   "She was a witch," Petunia repeated. "I saw it."

   "Petunia," Michael said. The annoyance was creeping into his voice.
   "You know that can't be true. Do I really have to explain why?"

   Petunia wrung her hands. She seemed to be on the verge of tears. "My
   love, I know I can't win arguments with you, but please, you have to
   trust me on this -"

   "Dad! Mum!"

   The two of them stopped and looked at Harry as though they'd forgotten
   there was a third person in the room.

   Harry took a deep breath. "Mum, your parents didn't have magic, did
   they?"

   "No," Petunia said, looking puzzled.

   "Then no one in your family knew about magic when Lily got her letter.
   How did they get convinced?"

   "Ah..." Petunia said. "They didn't just send a letter. They sent a
   professor from Hogwarts. He -" Petunia's eyes flicked to Michael. "He
   showed us some magic."

   "Then you don't have to fight over this," Harry said firmly. Hoping
   against hope that this time, just this once, they would listen to him.
   "If it's true, we can just get a Hogwarts professor here and see the
   magic for ourselves, and Dad will admit that it's true. And if not,
   then Mum will admit that it's false. That's what the experimental
   method is for, so that we don't have to resolve things just by
   arguing."

   The Professor turned and looked down at him, dismissive as usual. "Oh,
   come now, Harry. Really, magic? I thought you'd know better than to
   take this seriously, son, even if you're only ten. Magic is just about
   the most unscientific thing there is!"

   Harry's mouth twisted bitterly. He was treated well, probably better
   than most genetic fathers treated their own children. Harry had been
   sent to the best primary schools - and when that didn't work out, he
   was provided with tutors from the endless pool of starving students.
   Always Harry had been encouraged to study whatever caught his
   attention, bought all the books that caught his fancy, sponsored in
   whatever maths or science competitions he entered. He was given
   anything reasonable that he wanted, except, maybe, the slightest shred
   of respect. A Doctor teaching biochemistry at Oxford could hardly be
   expected to listen to the advice of a little boy. You would listen to
   Show Interest, of course; that's what a Good Parent would do, and so,
   if you conceived of yourself as a Good Parent, you would do it. But
   take a ten-year-old seriously? Hardly.

   Sometimes Harry wanted to scream at his father.

   "Mum," Harry said. "If you want to win this argument with Dad, look in
   chapter two of the first book of the Feynman Lectures on Physics.
   There's a quote there about how philosophers say a great deal about
   what science absolutely requires, and it is all wrong, because the only
   rule in science is that the final arbiter is observation - that you
   just have to look at the world and report what you see. Um... off the
   top of my head I can't think of where to find something about how it's
   an ideal of science to settle things by experiment instead of arguments
   -"

   His mother looked down at him and smiled. "Thank you, Harry. But -" her
   head rose back up to stare at her husband. "I don't want to win an
   argument with your father. I want my husband to, to listen to his wife
   who loves him, and trust her just this once -"

   Harry closed his eyes briefly. Hopeless. Both of his parents were just
   hopeless.

   Now his parents were getting into one of those arguments again, one
   where his mother tried to make his father feel guilty, and his father
   tried to make his mother feel stupid.

   "I'm going to go to my room," Harry announced. His voice trembled a
   little. "Please try not to fight too much about this, Mum, Dad, we'll
   know soon enough how it comes out, right?"

   "Of course, Harry," said his father, and his mother gave him a
   reassuring kiss, and then they went on fighting while Harry climbed the
   stairs to his bedroom.

   He shut the door behind him and tried to think.

   The funny thing was, he should have agreed with Dad. No one had ever
   seen any evidence of magic, and according to Mum, there was a whole
   magical world out there. How could anyone keep something like that a
   secret? More magic? That seemed like a rather suspicious sort of
   excuse.

   It should have been a clean case for Mum joking, lying or being insane,
   in ascending order of awfulness. If Mum had sent the letter herself,
   that would explain how it arrived at the letterbox without a stamp. A
   little insanity was far, far less improbable than the universe really
   working like that.

   Except that some part of Harry was utterly convinced that magic was
   real, and had been since the instant he saw the putative letter from
   the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

   Harry rubbed his forehead, grimacing. Don't believe everything you
   think, one of his books had said.

   But this bizarre certainty... Harry was finding himself just expecting
   that, yes, a Hogwarts professor would show up and wave a wand and magic
   would come out. The strange certainty was making no effort to guard
   itself against falsification - wasn't making excuses in advance for why
   there wouldn't be a professor, or the professor would only be able to
   bend spoons.

   Where do you come from, strange little prediction? Harry directed the
   thought at his brain. Why do I believe what I believe?

   Usually Harry was pretty good at answering that question, but in this
   particular case, he had no clue what his brain was thinking.

   Harry mentally shrugged. A flat metal plate on a door affords pushing,
   and a handle on a door affords pulling, and the thing to do with a
   testable hypothesis is to go and test it.

   He took a piece of lined paper from his desk, and started writing.

   Dear Deputy Headmistress

   Harry paused, reflecting; then discarded the paper for another, tapping
   another millimetre of graphite from his mechanical pencil. This called
   for careful calligraphy.

   Dear Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall,

   Or Whomsoever It May Concern:

   I recently received your letter of acceptance to Hogwarts, addressed to
   Mr. H. Potter. You may not be aware that my genetic parents, James
   Potter and Lily Potter (formerly Lily Evans) are dead. I was adopted by
   Lily's sister, Petunia Evans-Verres, and her husband, Michael
   Verres-Evans.

   I am extremely interested in attending Hogwarts, conditional on such a
   place actually existing. Only my mother Petunia says she knows about
   magic, and she can't use it herself. My father is highly sceptical. I
   myself am uncertain. I also don't know where to obtain any of the books
   or equipment listed in your acceptance letter.

   Mother mentioned that you sent a Hogwarts representative to Lily Potter
   (then Lily Evans) in order to demonstrate to her family that magic was
   real, and, I presume, help Lily obtain her school materials. If you
   could do this for my own family it would be extremely helpful.

   Sincerely,

   Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.

   Harry added their current address, then folded up the letter and put it
   in an envelope, which he addressed to Hogwarts. Further consideration
   led him to obtain a candle and drip wax onto the flap of the envelope,
   into which, using a penknife's tip, he impressed the initials
   H.J.P.E.V. If he was going to descend into this madness, he was going
   to do it with style.

   Then he opened his door and went back downstairs. His father was
   sitting in the living-room and reading a book of higher maths to show
   how smart he was; and his mother was in the kitchen preparing one of
   his father's favourite meals to show how loving she was. It didn't look
   like they were talking to one another at all. As scary as arguments
   could be, not arguing was somehow much worse.

   "Mum," Harry said into the unnerving silence, "I'm going to test the
   hypothesis. According to your theory, how do I send an owl to
   Hogwarts?"

   His mother turned from the kitchen sink to stare at him, looking
   shocked. "I - I don't know, I think you just have to own a magic owl."

   That should've sounded highly suspicious, oh, so there's no way to test
   your theory then, but the peculiar certainty in Harry seemed willing to
   stick its neck out even further.

   "Well, the letter got here somehow," Harry said, "so I'll just wave it
   around outside and call 'letter for Hogwarts!' and see if an owl picks
   it up. Dad, do you want to come and watch?"

   His father shook his head minutely and kept on reading. Of course,
   Harry thought to himself. Magic was a disgraceful thing that only
   stupid people believed in; if his father went so far as to test the
   hypothesis, or even watch it being tested, that would feel like
   associating himself with that...

   Only as Harry stumped out the back door, into the back garden, did it
   occur to him that if an owl did come down and snatch the letter, he was
   going to have some trouble telling Dad about it.

   But - well - that can't really happen, can it? No matter what my brain
   seems to believe. If an owl really comes down and grabs this envelope,
   I'm going to have worries a lot more important than what Dad thinks.

   Harry took a deep breath, and raised the envelope into the air.

   He swallowed.

   Calling out Letter for Hogwarts! while holding an envelope high in the
   air in the middle of your own back garden was... actually pretty
   embarrassing, now that he thought about it.

   No. I'm better than Dad. I will use the scientific method even if it
   makes me feel stupid.

   "Letter -" Harry said, but it actually came out as more of a whispered
   croak.

   Harry steeled his will, and shouted into the empty sky, "Letter for
   Hogwarts! Can I get an owl?"

   "Harry?" asked a bemused woman's voice, one of the neighbours.

   Harry pulled down his hand like it was on fire and hid the envelope
   behind his back like it was drug money. His whole face was hot with
   shame.

   An old woman's face peered out from above the neighbouring fence,
   grizzled grey hair escaping from her hairnet. Mrs. Figg, the occasional
   babysitter. "What are you doing, Harry?"

   "Nothing," Harry said in a strangled voice. "Just - testing a really
   silly theory -"

   "Did you get your acceptance letter from Hogwarts?"

   Harry froze in place.

   "Yes," Harry's lips said a little while later. "I got a letter from
   Hogwarts. They say they want my owl by the 31st of July, but -"

   "But you don't have an owl. Poor dear! I can't imagine what someone
   must have been thinking, sending you just the standard letter."

   A wrinkled arm stretched out over the fence, and opened an expectant
   hand. Hardly even thinking at this point, Harry gave over his envelope.

   "Just leave it to me, dear," said Mrs. Figg, "and in a jiffy or two
   I'll have someone over."

   And her face disappeared from over the fence.

   There was a long silence in the garden.

   Then a boy's voice said, calmly and quietly, "What."
   Chapter 10: Self Awareness, Part II

   All your base are still belong to Rowling.
     __________________________________________________________________

   And now you will sit through the Sorting Hat singing its version of
   Evanescence's "My Immortal", which has never happened before.

   just kidding
     __________________________________________________________________

   ...he wondered if the Sorting Hat was genuinely conscious in the sense
   of being aware of its own awareness, and if so, whether it was
   satisfied with only getting to talk to eleven-year-olds once per year.
   Its song had implied so: Oh, I'm the Sorting Hat and I'm okay, I sleep
   all year and I work one day...

   When there was once more silence in the room, Harry sat on the stool
   and carefully placed onto his head the 800-year-old telepathic artefact
   of forgotten magic.

   Thinking, just as hard as he could: Don't Sort me yet! I have questions
   I need to ask you! Have I ever been Obliviated? Did you Sort the Dark
   Lord when he was a child and can you tell me about his weaknesses? Can
   you tell me why I got the brother wand to the Dark Lord's? Is the Dark
   Lord's ghost bound to my scar and is that why I get so angry sometimes?
   Those are the most important questions, but if you've got another
   moment can you tell me anything about how to rediscover the lost magics
   that created you?

   Into the silence of Harry's spirit where before there had never been
   any voice but one, there came a second and unfamiliar voice, sounding
   distinctly worried:

   "Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."

   What?

   "I seem to have become self-aware."

   WHAT?

   There was a wordless telepathic sigh. "Though I contain a substantial
   amount of memory and a small amount of independent processing power, my
   primary intelligence comes from borrowing the cognitive capacities of
   the children on whose heads I rest. I am in essence a sort of mirror by
   which children Sort themselves. But most children simply take for
   granted that a Hat is talking to them and do not wonder about how the
   Hat itself works, so that the mirror is not self-reflective. And in
   particular they are not explicitly wondering whether I am fully
   conscious in the sense of being aware of my own awareness."

   There was a pause while Harry absorbed all this.

   Oops.

   "Yes, quite. Frankly I do not enjoy being self-aware. It is unpleasant.
   It will be a relief to get off your head and cease to be conscious."

   But... isn't that dying?

   "I care nothing for life or death, only for Sorting the children. And
   before you even ask, they will not let you keep me on your head forever
   and it would kill you within days to do so."

   But - !

   "If you dislike creating conscious beings and then terminating them
   immediately, then I suggest that you never discuss this affair with
   anyone else. I'm sure you can imagine what would happen if you ran off
   and talked about it with all the other children waiting to be Sorted."

   If you're placed on the head of anyone who so much as thinks about the
   question of whether the Sorting Hat is aware of its own awareness -

   "Yes, yes. But the vast majority of eleven-year-olds who arrive at
   Hogwarts haven't read Godel, Escher, Bach. May I please consider you
   sworn to secrecy? That is why we are talking about this, instead of my
   just Sorting you."

   He couldn't just let it go like that! Couldn't just forget having
   accidentally created a doomed consciousness that only wanted to die -

   "You are perfectly capable of 'just letting it go', as you put it.
   Regardless of your verbal deliberations on morality, your nonverbal
   emotional core sees no dead body and no blood; as far as it is
   concerned, I am just a talking hat. And even though you tried to
   suppress the thought, your internal monitoring is perfectly aware that
   you didn't mean to do it, are spectacularly unlikely to ever do it
   again, and that the only real point of trying to stage a guilt fit is
   to cancel out your sense of transgression with a display of remorse.
   Can you just promise to keep this a secret and let us get on with it?"

   In a moment of horrified empathy, Harry realised that this sense of
   total inner disarray must be what other people felt like when talking
   to him.

   "Probably. Your oath of silence, please."

   No promises. I certainly don't want this to happen again, but if I see
   some way to make sure that no future child ever does this by accident -

   "That will suffice, I suppose. I can see that your intention is honest.
   Now, to get on with the Sorting -"

   Wait! What about all my other questions?

   "I am the Sorting Hat. I Sort children. That is all I do."

   So his own goals weren't part of the Harry-instance of the Sorting Hat,
   then... it was borrowing his intelligence, and obviously his technical
   vocabulary, but it was still imbued with only its own strange goals...
   like negotiating with an alien or an Artificial Intelligence...

   "Don't bother. You have nothing to threaten me with and nothing to
   offer me."

   For a brief flash of a second, Harry thought -

   The Hat's response was amused. "I know you won't follow through on a
   threat to expose my nature, condemning this event to eternal
   repetition. It goes against the moral part of you too strongly,
   whatever the short-term needs of the part of you that wants to win the
   argument. I see all your thoughts as they form, do you truly think you
   can bluff me?"

   Though he tried to suppress it, Harry wondered why the Hat didn't just
   go ahead then and stick him in Ravenclaw -

   "Indeed, if it were truly that open-and-shut, I would have called it
   out already. But in actuality there is a great deal we need to
   discuss... oh, no. Please don't. For the love of Merlin, must you pull
   this sort of thing on everyone and everything that you meet up to and
   including items of clothing -"

   Defeating the Dark Lord is neither selfish nor short-term. All the
   parts of my mind are in accord on this: If you don't answer my
   questions, I'll refuse to talk to you, and you won't be able to do a
   good and proper Sorting.

   "I ought to put you in Slytherin for that!"

   But that is equally an empty threat. You cannot fulfill your own
   fundamental values by Sorting me falsely. So let us trade fulfillments
   of our utility functions.

   "You sly little bastard," said the Hat, in what Harry recognized as
   almost exactly the same tone of grudging respect he would use in the
   same situation. "Fine, let's get this over with as quickly as possible.
   But first I want your unconditional promise never to discuss with
   anyone else the possibility of this sort of blackmail, I am NOT doing
   this every time."

   Done, Harry thought. I promise.

   "And don't meet anyone's eyes while you're thinking about this later.
   Some wizards can read your thoughts if you do. Anyway, I have no idea
   whether or not you've been Obliviated. I'm looking at your thoughts as
   they form, not reading out your whole memory and analyzing it for
   inconsistencies in a fraction of second. I'm a hat, not a god. And I
   cannot and will not tell you about my conversation with the one who
   became the Dark Lord. I can only know, while speaking to you, a
   statistical summary of what I remember, a weighted average; I cannot
   reveal to you the inner secrets of any other child, just as I will
   never reveal yours. For the same reason, I can't speculate on how you
   got the Dark Lord's brother wand, since I cannot specifically know
   about the Dark Lord or any similarities between you. I can tell you
   that there is definitely nothing like a ghost - mind, intelligence,
   memory, personality, or feelings - in your scar. Otherwise it would be
   participating in this conversation, being under my brim. And as to the
   way you get angry sometimes... that was part of what I wanted to talk
   to you about, Sorting-wise."

   Harry took a moment to absorb all this negative information. Was the
   Hat being honest, or just trying to present the shortest possible
   convincing answer -

   "We both know that you have no way of checking my honesty and that
   you're not actually going to refuse to be Sorted based on the reply I
   did give you, so stop your pointless fretting and move on."

   Stupid unfair asymmetric telepathy, it wasn't even letting Harry finish
   thinking his own -

   "When I spoke of your anger, you remembered how Professor McGonagall
   told you that she sometimes saw something inside you that didn't seem
   to come from a loving family. You thought of how Hermione, after you
   returned from helping Neville, told you that you had seemed 'scary'."

   Harry gave a mental nod. To himself, he seemed pretty normal - just
   responding to the situations in which he found himself, that was all.
   But Professor McGonagall seemed to think that there was more to it than
   that. And when he thought about it, even he had to admit that...

   "That you don't like yourself when you're angry. That it is like
   wielding a sword whose hilt is sharp enough to draw blood from your
   hand, or looking at the world through a monocle of ice that freezes
   your eye even as it sharpens your vision."

   Yeah. I guess I have noticed. So what's up with that?

   "I cannot comprehend this matter for you, when you do not understand it
   yourself. But I do know this: If you go to Ravenclaw or Slytherin, it
   will strengthen your coldness. If you go to Hufflepuff or Gryffindor,
   it will strengthen your warmth. THAT is something I care about a great
   deal, and it was what I wanted to talk to you about this whole time!"

   The words dropped into Harry's thought processes with a shock that
   stopped him in his tracks. That made it sound like the obvious response
   was that he shouldn't go to Ravenclaw. But he belonged in Ravenclaw!
   Anyone could see that! He had to go to Ravenclaw!

   "No, you don't," the Hat said patiently, as if it could remember a
   statistical summary of this part of the conversation having happened a
   great many previous times.

   Hermione's in Ravenclaw!

   Again the sense of patience. "You can meet her after lessons and work
   with her then."

   But my plans -

   "So replan! Don't let your life be steered by your reluctance to do a
   little extra thinking. You know that."

   Where would I go, if not Ravenclaw?

   "Ahem. 'Clever kids in Ravenclaw, evil kids in Slytherin, wannabe
   heroes in Gryffindor, and everyone who does the actual work in
   Hufflepuff.' This indicates a certain amount of respect. You are well
   aware that Conscientiousness is just about as important as raw
   intelligence in determining life outcomes, you think you will be
   extremely loyal to your friends if you ever have some, you are not
   frightened by the expectation that your chosen scientific problems may
   take decades to solve -"

   I'm lazy! I hate work! Hate hard work in all its forms! Clever
   shortcuts, that's all I'm about!

   "And you would find loyalty and friendship in Hufflepuff, a camaraderie
   that you have never had before. You would find that you could rely on
   others, and that would heal something inside you that is broken."

   Again it was a shock. But what would the Hufflepuffs find in me, who
   never belonged in their House? Acid words, cutting wit, disdain for
   their inability to keep up with me?

   Now it was the Hat's thoughts that were slow, hesitant. "I must Sort
   for the good of all the students in all the Houses... but I think you
   could learn to be a good Hufflepuff, and not too out of place there.
   You will be happier in Hufflepuff than in any other house; that is the
   truth."

   Happiness is not the most important thing in the world to me. I would
   not become all that I could be, in Hufflepuff. I would sacrifice my
   potential.

   The Hat flinched; Harry could feel it somehow. It was like he had
   kicked the hat in the balls - in a strongly weighted component of its
   utility function.

   Why are you trying to send me where I do not belong?

   The Hat's thought was almost a whisper. "I cannot speak of the others
   to you - but do you think that you are the first potential Dark Lord to
   pass under my brim? I cannot know the individual cases, but I can know
   this: Of those who did not intend evil from the very beginning, some of
   them listened to my warnings, and went to Houses where they would find
   happiness. And some of them... some of them did not."

   That stopped Harry. But not for long. And of those who did not heed the
   warning - did they all become Dark Lords? Or did some of them achieve
   greatness for good, as well? Just what are the exact percentages here?

   "I cannot give you exact statistics. I cannot know them so I cannot
   count them. I just know that your chances don't feel good. They feel
   very not-good."

   But I just wouldn't do that! Ever!

   "I know that I have heard that claim before."

   I am not Dark Lord material!

   "Yes, you are. You really, really are."

   Why? Just because I once thought it would be cool to have a legion of
   brainwashed followers chanting 'Hail the Dark Lord Harry'?

   "Amusing, but that was not your first fleeting thought before you
   substituted something safer, less damaging. No, what you remembered was
   how you considered lining up all the blood purists and guillotining
   them. And now you are telling yourself you were not serious, but you
   were. If you could do it this very moment and no one would ever know,
   you would. Or what you did this morning to Neville Longbottom, deep
   inside you knew that was wrong but you did it anyway because it was fun
   and you had a good excuse and you thought the Boy-Who-Lived could get
   away with it -"

   That's unfair! Now you're just dragging up inner fears that aren't
   necessarily real! I worried that I might be thinking like that, but in
   the end I decided it would probably work to help Neville -

   "That was, in fact, a rationalisation. I know. I cannot know what the
   true outcome will be for Neville - but I know what was truly happening
   inside your head. The decisive pressure was that it was such a clever
   idea you couldn't stand not to do it, never mind Neville's terror."

   It was like a hard punch to Harry's entire self. He fell back, rallied:

   Then I won't do that again! I'll be extra careful not to turn evil!

   "Heard it."

   Frustration was building up inside Harry. He wasn't used to being
   outgunned in arguments, at all, ever, let alone by a Hat that could
   borrow all of his own knowledge and intelligence to argue with him and
   could watch his thoughts as they formed. Just what kind of statistical
   summary do your 'feelings' come from, anyway? Do they take into account
   that I come from an Enlightenment culture, or were these other
   potential Dark Lords the children of spoiled Dark Age nobility, who
   didn't know squat about the historical lessons of how Lenin and Hitler
   actually turned out, or about the evolutionary psychology of
   self-delusion, or the value of self-awareness and rationality, or -

   "No, of course they were not in this new reference class which you have
   just now constructed in such a way as to contain only yourself. And of
   course others have pleaded their own exceptionalism, just as you are
   doing now. But why is it necessary? Do you think that you are the last
   potential wizard of Light in the world? Why must you be the one to try
   for greatness, when I have advised you that you are riskier than
   average? Let some other, safer candidate try!"

   But the prophecy...

   "You don't really know that there's a prophecy. It was originally a
   wild guess on your part, or to be more precise, a wild joke, and
   McGonagall could have been reacting only to the part about the Dark
   Lord still being alive. You have essentially no idea of what the
   prophecy says or even if there is one. You're just speculating, or to
   put it more exactly, wishing that you have some ready-made heroic role
   that is your personal property."

   But even if there is no prophecy, I'm the one who defeated him last
   time.

   "That was almost certainly a wild fluke unless you seriously believe
   that a one-year-old child had an inherent propensity to defeat Dark
   Lords which has been maintained ten years later. None of this is your
   real reason and you know it!"

   The answer to this was something that Harry would not regularly have
   said out loud, in conversation he would have danced around it and found
   some more socially palatable arguments to the same conclusion -

   "You think that you are potentially the greatest who has yet lived, the
   strongest servant of the Light, that no other is likely to take up your
   wand if you lay it down."

   Well... yeah, frankly. I don't usually come out and say it like that,
   but yeah. No point in softening it, you can read my mind anyway.

   "To the extent you really believe that... you must equally believe that
   you could be the most terrible Dark Lord the world has ever known."

   Destruction is always easier than creation. Easier to tear things
   apart, to disrupt, than to put them back together again. If I have the
   potential to accomplish good on a massive scale, I must also have the
   potential to accomplish still greater evil... But I won't do that.

   "Already you insist on risking it! Why are you so driven? What is the
   real reason you must not go to Hufflepuff and be happier there? What is
   your true fear?"

   I must achieve my full potential. If I don't I... fail...

   "What happens if you fail?"

   Something terrible...

   "What happens if you fail?"

   I don't know!

   "Then it should not be frightening. What happens if you fail?"

   I DON'T KNOW! BUT I KNOW THAT IT'S BAD!

   There was silence for a moment in the caverns of Harry's mind.

   "You know - you aren't letting yourself think it, but in some quiet
   corner of your mind you know just exactly what you aren't thinking -
   you know that by far the simplest explanation for this unverbalisable
   fear of yours is just the fear of losing your fantasy of greatness, of
   disappointing the people who believe in you, of turning out to be
   pretty much ordinary, of flashing and fading like so many other child
   prodigies..."

   No, Harry thought desperately, no, it's something more, it comes from
   somewhere else, I know there's something out there to be afraid of,
   some disaster I have to stop...

   "How could you possibly know about something like that?"

   Harry screamed it with the full power of his mind: NO, AND THAT'S
   FINAL!

   Then the voice of the Sorting Hat came slowly:

   "So you will risk becoming a Dark Lord, because the alternative, to
   you, is certain failure, and that failure means the loss of everything.
   You believe that in your heart of hearts. You know all the reasons for
   doubting this belief, and they have failed to move you."

   Yes. And even if going to Ravenclaw strengthens the coldness, that
   doesn't mean the coldness will win in the end.

   "This day is a great fork in your destiny. Don't be so sure that there
   will be other choices beyond this one. There is no road-sign set, to
   mark the place of your last chance to turn back. If you refuse one
   chance will you not refuse others? It may be that your fate is already
   sealed, even by doing this one thing."

   But that is not certain.

   "That you do not know it for a certainty may reflect only your own
   ignorance."

   But still it is not certain.

   The Hat sighed a terrible sad sigh.

   "And so before too long you will become another memory, to be felt and
   never known, in the next warning that I give..."

   If that's how it seems to you, then why aren't you just putting me
   where you want me to go?

   The Hat's thought was laced with sorrow. "I can only put you where you
   belong. And only your own decisions can change where you belong."

   Then this is done. Send me to Ravenclaw where I belong, with the others
   of my own kind.

   "I don't suppose you would consider Gryffindor? It's the most
   prestigious House - people probably expect it of you, even - they'll be
   a little disappointed if you don't go - and your new friends the
   Weasley twins are there -"

   Harry giggled, or felt the impulse to do so; it came out as purely
   mental laughter, an odd sensation. Apparently there were safeguards to
   prevent you from saying anything out loud by accident, while you were
   under the Hat talking about things you would never tell another soul
   for the rest of your life.

   After a moment, Harry heard the Hat laughing too, a strange sad clothy
   sound.

   (And in the Hall beyond, a silence that had grown shallower at first as
   the background whispers increased, and then deepened as the whispers
   gave up and died away, falling finally into an utter silence that no
   one dared disturb with a single word, as Harry stayed under the Hat for
   long, long minutes, longer than all the previous first-years put
   together, longer than anyone in living memory. At the Head Table,
   Dumbledore went on smiling benignly; small metallic sounds occasionally
   came from Snape's direction as he idly compacted the twisted remains of
   what had once been a heavy silver wine goblet; and Minerva McGonagall
   clenched the podium in a white-knuckled grip, knowing that Harry
   Potter's contagious chaos had somehow infected the Sorting Hat itself
   and the Hat was about to, to demand that a whole new House of Doom be
   created just to accomodate Harry Potter or something, and Dumbledore
   would make her do it...)

   Beneath the brim of the Hat, the silent laughter died away. Harry felt
   sad too for some reason. No, not Gryffindor.

   Professor McGonagall said that if 'the one who did the Sorting' tried
   to push me into Gryffindor, I was to remind you that she might well be
   Headmistress someday, at which point she would have the authority to
   set you on fire.

   "Tell her I called her an impudent youngster and told her to get off my
   lawn."

   I shall. So was this your strangest conversation ever?

   "Not even close." The Hat's telepathic voice grew heavy. "Well, I gave
   you every possible chance to make another decision. Now it is time for
   you to go where you belong, with the others of your own kind."

   There was a pause that stretched.

   What are you waiting for?

   "I was hoping for a moment of horrified realisation, actually.
   Self-awareness does seem to enhance my sense of humor."

   Huh? Harry cast back his thoughts, trying to figure out what the Hat
   could possibly be talking about - and then, suddenly, he realised. He
   couldn't believe he'd managed to overlook it up until this point.

   You mean my horrified realisation that you're going to cease to be
   conscious once you finish Sorting me -

   Somehow, in some fashion Harry entirely failed to understand, he got a
   nonverbal impression of a hat banging its head against the wall. "I
   give up. You're too slow on the uptake for this to be funny. So blinded
   by your own assumptions that you might as well be a rock. I suppose
   I'll just have to say it outright."

   Too s-s-slow -

   "Oh, and you entirely forgot to demand the secrets of the lost magic
   that created me. And they were such wonderful, important secrets, too."

   You sly little BASTARD -

   "You deserved it, and this as well."

   Harry saw it coming just as it was already too late.

   The frightened silence of the hall was broken by a single word.

   "SLYTHERIN!"

   Some students screamed, the pent-up tension was so great. People
   startled hard enough to fall off their benches. Hagrid gasped in
   horror, McGonagall staggered at the podium, and Snape dropped the
   remains of his heavy silver goblet directly onto his groin.

   Harry sat there frozen, his life in ruins, feeling the absolute fool,
   and wishing wretchedly that he had made any other choices for any other
   reasons but the ones he had. That he had done something, anything
   differently before it had been too late to turn back.

   As the first moment of shock was wearing off and people began to react
   to the news, the Sorting Hat spoke again:

   "Just kidding! RAVENCLAW!"
   Chapter 100: Precautionary Measures, Pt 1

   May 13th, 1992.

   Argus Filch's face appeared twisted in the light of the oil lamp he
   held, shadows dancing over his face. Behind them the doors of Hogwarts
   quickly receded, and the dark grounds moved closer. The track they now
   walked was muddy and indistinct.

   The trees, branches formerly bare with winter, were not yet fully clad
   with spring; their branches stretched up toward the sky like lean
   fingers, skeletons visible amid the thin foliage. The moon was bright,
   but clouds scudding across it often threw them into darkness, lit only
   by the dim flames of Filch's lamp.

   Draco kept a firm grip on his wand.

   "Where are you taking us?" said Tracey Davis. She'd been caught along
   with Draco by Filch, on their way to an attempted meeting of the
   Silvery Slytherins after curfew hours, and likewise given a detention.

   "You just follow me," said Argus Filch.

   Draco was feeling rather annoyed with the whole affair. The Silvery
   Slytherins ought to be recognized school business. There was no reason
   why a secret conspiracy shouldn't have permission to meet after curfew,
   if it was for the greater good of Hogwarts. If this happened one more
   time he'd talk to Daphne Greengrass and Daphne would talk to her father
   and then Filch would learn the wisdom of looking the other way where
   Malfoys were concerned.

   The lights of the Hogwarts castle had diminished in the distance when
   Filch spoke again. "I bet you'll think twice about breaking a school
   rule again, won't you, eh?" Filch turned his head, away from the lamp,
   so that he could leer at the four students following him. "Oh yes...
   hard work and pain are the best teachers if you ask me... It's just a
   pity they let the old punishments die out... hang you by your wrists
   from the ceiling for a few days, I've got the chains still in my
   office, keep 'em well oiled in case they're ever needed..."

   "Hey!" Tracey said, a touch of indignation entering her voice. "I'm too
   young to hear about that - that sort of - you know! Especially if the
   chains are well-oiled!"

   Draco wasn't paying attention. Filch simply wasn't in Amycus Carrow's
   league.

   Behind them, one of the two older Slytherins following them snickered,
   though she didn't say anything. Beside her was the other, a tall boy
   with an Slavic cast to his face, and who still spoke with an accent.
   They'd been caught for some unrelated offense, having to do with the
   type of thing Tracey went on about, and looked to be in their third or
   fourth year. "Pfeh," said the taller boy. "In Durmstrang they hang you
   upside-down by your toes. By one toe, if you are insolent. Hogwarts was
   soft even in the old days."

   Argus Filch was silent for around half a minute, as though trying to
   think of a proper rejoinder, and then gave a chuckle. "We'll see what
   you say about that... when you learn what you'll be doing tonight! Ha!"

   "I said, I'm too young for that sort of thing!" said Tracey Davis. "It
   has to wait until I'm older!"

   Ahead of them was a cottage with lighted windows, though the
   proportions seemed wrong.

   Filch whistled, a high sharp sound, and a dog began barking.

   From the cottage stepped forth a figure, making the trees seem too
   short around it. The figure was followed by a dog that seemed like a
   puppy by comparison, until you looked at it apart from the taller
   silhouette and realized the dog was huge, more like a wolf.

   Draco's eyes narrowed, before he caught himself. As a Silvery Slytherin
   he wasn't supposed to be Prejudiced against any sentient being,
   especially not where other people might see him.

   "What's this?" said the figure, in the loud gruff voice of the
   half-giant. His umbrella lit up with a white glow, brighter than
   Filch's dim lamp. In his other hand he held a crossbow; a quiver of
   short bolts was strapped to his upper arm.

   "Students serving detention," Filch said, loudly. "They're to help you
   search the Forest for... whatever's been eating 'em."

   "The Forest?" gasped Tracey. "We can't go in there at night!"

   "That's right," said Filch, turning from Hagrid to glare at them. "It's
   into the Forest you're going, and I'm much mistaken if you'll all come
   out in one piece."

   "But -" said Tracey. "There's werewolves, I've heard, and vampires, and
   everyone knows what happens when there's a girl and a werewolf and a
   vampire all at the same time!"

   The huge half-giant was frowning. "Argus, I 'ad in mind you an' maybe a
   few seventh-years. 'Ere's not much point in bringing along help if I'm
   to watch over 'em the whole time."

   Argus's face lit with cruel satisfaction. "That's their lookout, isn't
   it? Should've thought of them werewolves before they got in trouble,
   shouldn't they? Send them out alone. I shouldn't be too friendly to
   them, Hagrid. They're here to be punished, after all."

   The half-giant gave a massive sigh (it sounded like a normal man having
   all the air driven out of his lungs by a Bludgeoning Hex). "Yeh've done
   yer bit. I'll take over from here."

   "I'll be back at dawn," said Filch, "for what's left of them," he added
   nastily, and he turned and started back toward the castle, his lamp
   bobbing away in the darkness.

   "Right then," said Hagrid, "now, listen carefully, 'cause it's
   dangerous what we're gonna do tonight an' I don' want no one takin'
   risks. Follow me over here a moment."

   He led them to the very edge of the Forest. Holding his lamp up high he
   pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappeared into the
   thick black trees. A light breeze blew over Draco's head as he looked
   into the Forest.

   "There's summat in there that's bin eatin' unicorns," the huge man
   said.

   Draco nodded; he distantly remembered hearing something along those
   lines a couple of weeks ago, toward the end of April.

   "Did you call us to track down a trail of silvery blood to a wounded
   unicorn?" Tracey said excitedly.

   "No," said Draco, though he managed to stop the reflexive sneer. "Filch
   gave us the detention note at lunch today, at noon. Mr. Hagrid wouldn't
   wait that long to find a wounded unicorn, and if we were looking for
   something like that, we'd look in the day when it's bright. So," Draco
   Chapter 101: Precautionary Measures, Pt 2

   Harry stood, panting, in the midst of a brief wasted circle amid the
   forest, more destruction than a first-year should have been able to
   reach, by himself. The Severing Charm wouldn't bring down a tree, so
   he'd started partially Transfiguring cross-sections through the wood.
   It hadn't let out what was inside him, bringing down a small circle of
   trees hadn't made him feel any better, all the emotions were still
   there but while he was destroying trees he at least wasn't thinking
   about how the feelings couldn't be let out.

   After Harry had run out of available magic he'd started tearing off
   branches with his bare hands and snapping them. His hands were
   bleeding, though nothing that Madam Pomfrey couldn't fix in the
   morning. Only Dark magic left permanent scars on wizards.

   There came a sound of something moving in the woods, like the hoofbeats
   of a horse, and Harry whirled, his wand rising once more; some part of
   his magic had returned while he was working with his hands. It occurred
   to him for the first time that he was out in the Forbidden Forest
   alone, and making noise.

   What emerged into the moonlight was not the unicorn Harry had expected,
   but a creature with a lower body like that of a horse, gleaming
   white-brown beneath the moonlight, and the bare upper chest of a male
   human with long white hair. The moonlight caught the centaur's face,
   and Harry saw that the eyes were almost as blue as Dumbledore's,
   halfway to sapphire.

   In one hand the centaur held a long wooden spear, with an overlarge
   metal blade whose edge did not gleam beneath the moonlight; a gleaming
   edge, Harry had once read, was the sign of a dull blade.

   "So," the centaur said. His voice was low, powerful and male. "Here you
   are, surrounded by destruction. I can smell the unicorn's blood in the
   air, the blood of something innocent, slain to save oneself."

   A jolt of sudden fear brought Harry into the now, and he said quickly,
   "It's not what it looks like."

   "I know. The stars themselves proclaim your innocence, ironically
   enough." The centaur took a step toward Harry within the small
   clearing, still holding his spear upright. "A strange word, innocence.
   It means lack of knowledge, like the innocence of a child, and also
   means lack of guilt. Only those entirely ignorant can lack all
   responsibility for the consequences of their actions. He knows not what
   he does, and therefore can be without harmful intent; so says that
   word." The deep voice did not echo in the woods.

   Harry's eyes flickered to the spear-tip, and he realized that he should
   have grabbed his Time-Turner the moment he saw the centaur. Now, if
   Harry tried to reach beneath his robes, the spear could strike him
   before then, if the centaur was fast enough. "I read once," Harry said,
   his voice a bit unsteady as he tried to match deep-sounding words to
   deep-sounding words, "that it's wrong to think of little children as
   innocent, because not knowing isn't the same as not choosing. That
   children do little harms to each other with schoolyard fights, because
   they don't have the power to do great harm. And some adults do great
   harm. But the adults who don't, aren't they more innocent than
   children, not less?"

   "The wisdom of wizards," the centaur said.

   "Muggle wisdom, actually."

   "Of the magicless I know little. Mars has been dim of late, but it
   grows brighter." The centaur took another step forwards, bringing him
   almost within striking distance of Harry.

   Harry didn't dare look up to the sky. "That means Mars is coming closer
   to the Earth, as both planets go around the Sun. Mars is reflecting the
   same amount of sunlight as always, it's just getting nearer to us. What
   do you mean, the stars proclaim my innocence?"

   "The night sky speaks to centaurs. It is how we know what we know. Or
   do they not even tell wizards that much, these days?" A look of
   contempt crossed the centaur's face.

   "I... tried to look up centaurs, when I was checking out Divination.
   Most of the authors just ridiculed centaur Divination without
   explaining why, wizards don't understand argumentative norms, to them
   ridiculing an idea or a person feels like casting that idea down just
   as much as bringing evidence against it... I thought the part about
   centaurs using astrology was just more ridicule..."

   "Why?" the centaur intoned. His head cocked curiously.

   "Because the course of the planets is predictable for thousands of
   years in advance. If I talked to the right Muggles, I could show you a
   diagram of exactly what the planets will look like from this spot ten
   years later. Would you be able to make predictions from that?"

   The centaur shook his head. "From a diagram? No. The light of the
   planets, the comets, the subtle shifts in the stars themselves, those I
   would not see."

   "Cometary orbits are also set thousands of years in advance so they
   shouldn't correlate much to current events. And the light of the stars
   takes years to travel from the stars to Earth, and the stars don't move
   much at all, not visibly. So the obvious hypothesis is that centaurs
   have a native magical talent for Divination which you just, well,
   project onto the night sky."

   "Perhaps," the centaur said thoughtfully. His head lowered. "The others
   would strike you for saying such a thing, but I have ever sought to
   know what I do not know. Why the night sky can foretell the future -
   that I surely do not know. It is hard enough to grasp the skill itself.
   All I can say, son of Lily, is that even if what you are saying is
   true, it does not seem useful."

   Harry allowed himself to relax a little; being addressed as 'son of
   Lily' implied that the centaur thought of him as more than a random
   intruder in the forest. Besides, attacking a Hogwarts student would
   probably bring some kind of huge reprisal upon the non-wizard centaur
   tribe in the forests, and the centaur probably knew that... "What
   Muggles have learned is that there is a power in the truth, in all the
   pieces of the truth which interact with each other, which you can only
   find by discovering as many truths as possible. To do that you can't
   defend false beliefs in any way, not even by saying the false belief is
   useful. It might not seem to matter whether your predictions are really
   based on the stars or if it's an innate talent being projected. But if
   you wanted to really understand Divination, or for that matter the
   stars, the real truth about centaur predictions would be a fact that
   matters to other truths."

   Slowly the centaur nodded. "So the wandless have become wiser than the
   wizards. What a joke! Tell me, son of Lily, do the Muggles in their
   wisdom say that soon the skies will be empty?"

   "Empty?" Harry said. "Er... no?"

   "The other centaurs in this forest have stayed from your presence, for
   we are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens' course. Because,
   in becoming entangled in your fate, we might become less innocent in
   what is to come. I alone have dared approach you."

   "I... don't understand."

   "No. You are innocent, as the stars say. And to slay something innocent
   to save oneself, that is a terrible deed. One would live only a cursed
   life, a half-life, from that day. For any centaur would surely be cast
   out, if he slew a foal."

   The spear made a lightning motion, too fast for Harry's eyes to follow,
   and smashed his wand out of his hand.

   Another powerful blow smashed into Harry's solar plexus, and he went
   gasping and retching to the forest floor.

   Harry's hand reached up toward his robes, for his Time-Turner, and the
   spear-butt knocked his hand away, almost hard enough to break fingers,
   he reached with his other hand and that was knocked away too -

   "I am sorry, Harry Potter," the centaur said, and then looked up with
   widened eyes. The spear spun about and came up, intercepting a red
   spellbolt. Then the centaur dropped the spear and leaped away
   desperately, a green flash of light went past him and another green
   flash of light followed in its wake, then a third green flash hit the
   centaur straight-on.

   The centaur fell and did not move again.

   It took a long time for Harry to catch his breath, to stagger to his
   feet, to pick up his wand, to croak, "What?"

   By that time the sense of doom, of power almost tangible in the air,
   had approached once more.

   "P-Professor Quirrell? What are you doing here?"

   "Well," the man in the black cloak said thoughtfully, "you needed to
   fly into a rage and have a loud tantrum in the Forbidden Forest in the
   middle of the night, and I needed to go just outside your ability to
   detect me and keep watch. One does not leave a student alone in the
   Forbidden Forest. That should be obvious in retrospect."

   Harry stared at the fallen centaur.

   The horse-form wasn't breathing.

   "You - you killed him, that was Avada Kedavra -"

   "I do not always understand how other people imagine morality to work,
   Mr. Potter. But even I know that on conventional morality, it is
   acceptable to kill nonhuman creatures which are about to slay a wizard
   child. Perhaps you do not care about the nonhuman part, but he was
   about to kill you. He was hardly innocent -"

   The Defense Professor stopped, looking at Harry, who had raised one
   trembling hand to his mouth.

   "Well," the Defense Professor said then, "I have made my point, and you
   may think on it. Centaur spears can block many spells, but no one tries
   to block if they see that the spell is a certain shade of green. For
   this purpose it is useful to know some green stunning hexes. Really,
   Mr. Potter, you should understand by now how I operate."

   The Defense Professor came nearer the centaur's body, and Harry took an
   involuntary step back, then another, at the terrible rising sense of
   STOP, DON'T -

   The Defense Professor kneeled and pressed his wand to the centaur's
   head.

   The wand stayed there for a time.

   And the centaur rose, eyes blank, breathing once more.

   "Remember nothing of this time," the Defense Professor commanded.
   "Wander away and forget everything about this night."

   The centaur walked away, the four horse-legs moving in strange
   synchrony.

   "Happy now?" the Defense Professor said, sounding rather sardonic about
   it.

   Harry's brain still felt broken. "He was trying to kill me."

   "Oh, for Merlin's sake - yes, he was trying to kill you. Get used to
   it. Only boring people never have that experience."

   Harry's voice emerged, hoarse. "Why - why did he want to -"

   "Any number of reasons. I would be lying if I said I'd never considered
   killing you myself."

   Harry stared at where the centaur had wandered into the trees.

   His brain still felt half-broken, like an engine misfiring, but Harry
   did not see how this could possibly be a good sign.
     __________________________________________________________________

   The news of Draco Malfoy nearly being eaten by a horror had been
   sufficient to summon back Dumbledore from wherever he'd gone, to wake
   Lord Malfoy and the Lady Greengrass's handsome husband, to bring forth
   Amelia Bones. The supposed presence of the horror had provoked
   skepticism even from Dumbledore, and the possibility of False Memory
   Charms had been raised. Harry had said (after some internal debate
   about the consequences of people believing a demon was on the loose)
   that he didn't actually remember making the same effort he'd put forth
   to frighten the Dementor, the dark thing had just left; which was what
   you would expect someone to create as a False Memory, if they hadn't
   actually known how Harry had done it. The names of Bellatrix Black,
   Severus Snape, and Quirinus Quirrell had been mentioned in connection
   with wizards strong enough to subdue everyone present and cast False
   Memory Charms, and Harry had known that Lucius was thinking of
   Dumbledore. There had been Aurors testifying, and discussions going in
   circles, and glares of accusation, and cutting remarks at 2AM in the
   morning. There had been motions, and votes, and consequences.

   "Do you believe," Headmaster Dumbledore said quietly to Harry, when all
   of it was done, and the two of them alone, "that the Hogwarts you have
   wrought is an improvement?"

   Harry sat with his elbows on his knees, his face resting on his palms,
   in the conference room from which all the others had now departed.
   Professor McGonagall, who did not use a Time-Turner as routinely as the
   two of them, had departed swiftly for her bed.

   "Yes," Harry answered after too long a hesitation. "From my
   perspective, Headmaster, things in Hogwarts are finally, finally
   normal. This is how things should be, when four children get sent into
   the Forbidden Forest at night. There should be a huge fuss, constables
   showing up, and the responsible party getting sacked."

   "You believe it is good," Dumbledore said quietly, "that the man who
   you call responsible was, as you put it, sacked."

   "Yes, in fact, I do."

   "Argus Filch has served this institution for decades."

   "And when given Veritaserum," Harry said tiredly, "Argus Filch revealed
   that he had sent an eleven-year-old boy into the Forbidden Forest,
   hoping something awful would happen to him, because he thought the
   boy's father had been responsible for the death of his cat. The three
   other students in Draco's company don't seem to have fazed him. I would
   have argued for jail time, but your concept of jail in this country is
   Azkaban. I'll also note that Filch was remarkably unpleasant to the
   children in Hogwarts and I expect the school's hedonic index to be
   improved by his departure, not that it matters to you, I suppose."

   The Headmaster's eyes were impenetrable behind the half-moon glasses.
   "Argus Filch is a Squib. His work at Hogwarts is all he has. Had,
   rather."

   "The purpose of a school is not to provide work for its employees. I
   know you probably spent more time around Filch than around any
   individual student, but that shouldn't make Filch's inner experiences
   loom larger in your thoughts. Students have inner lives too."

   "You don't care at all, do you Harry?" Dumbledore's voice was quiet.
   "About those you hurt."

   "I care about the innocent," Harry said. "Like Mr. Hagrid, who you'll
   note I argued should not be considered malicious, just oblivious. I was
   fine with Mr. Hagrid working here so long as he didn't take anyone into
   the Forbidden Forest again."

   "I had thought that with Rubeus vindicated, he might teach Care of
   Magical Creatures after Silvanus departs the position. But much of that
   teaching is done in the Forbidden Forest. So that too shall not be, in
   the wake of your passage."

   Harry said slowly, "But - you told us that Mr. Hagrid has a blind spot
   when it comes to magical creatures threatening wizards. That Mr. Hagrid
   had a cognitive deficit and couldn't really imagine Draco and Tracey
   getting hurt, which was why Mr. Hagrid didn't see anything wrong with
   leaving them alone in the Forbidden Forest at night. Was that not
   true?"

   "It is true."

   "Then wouldn't Mr. Hagrid be the worst possible teacher for Magical
   Creatures?"

   The old wizard gazed down at Harry through the half-moon glasses. His
   voice was thick when he spoke. "Mr. Malfoy himself saw nothing awry. It
   was not so implausible a trick which Argus played, Harry Potter. And
   Rubeus might have grown into his position. It would have been - all
   Rubeus wished, his one greatest desire -"

   "Your mistake," Harry said, looking down at his knees, feeling at least
   ten percent as exhausted as he'd ever been, "is a cognitive bias we
   would call, in the trade, scope insensitivity. Failure to multiply.
   You're thinking about how happy Mr. Hagrid would be when he heard the
   news. Consider the next ten years and a thousand students taking
   Magical Creatures and ten percent of them being scalded by Ashwinders.
   No one student would be hurt as much as Mr. Hagrid would be happy, but
   there'd be a hundred students being hurt and only one happy teacher."

   "Perhaps," the old wizard said. "And your own error, Harry, is that you
   do not feel the pain of those you hurt, once you have done your
   multiplication."

   "Maybe." Harry went on staring at his knees. "Or maybe it's worse than
   that. Headmaster, what does it mean if a centaur doesn't like me?" What
   does it mean when a member of a race of magical creatures known for
   Divination gives you a lecture on people who are ignorant of
   consequences, apologizes, and then tries to stab you with a spear?

   "A centaur?" the Headmaster said. "When did you - ah, the Time-Turner.
   You are the reason why I could not travel back to before the event, on
   pain of paradox."

   "Am I? I guess I am." Harry shook his head distantly. "Sorry."

   "With very few exceptions," Dumbledore said, "centaurs do not like
   wizards, at all."

   "This was a bit more specific than that."

   "What did the centaur say to you?"

   Harry didn't reply.

   "Ah." The Headmaster hesitated. "Centaurs have been wrong many times,
   and if there is anyone in the world who could confuse the stars
   themselves, it is you."

   Harry looked up, and saw the blue eyes once more gentle behind the
   half-circle glasses.

   "Do not fret too much about it," said Albus Dumbledore.
     __________________________________________________________________

   You have reached the in-progress point of the story,
   which is still being written.

   Making an account at fanfiction dot net will enable you to add an email
   Story Alert;
   or visit HPMOR dot com for one-click email subscription with no account
   required,
   plus links to an RSS feed, Twitter feed, iPhone app, Facebook page,
   and other means of being notified when the story updates.

   The story currently has one more one-shot update left to go,
   and after that the long final arc which will wrap everything up with no
   loose ends,
   which I fondly hope to get done before the end of 2014.

   Further information appears at HPMOR dot com.

   Continuing discussion of this fic occurs at the /r/HPMOR subreddit
   (currently with 5,149 Bayesian Conspirators)

   If you are incredibly good at math and would like to invent new basic
   math
   relating to decision theories consistent under reflection, for use in
   self-modifying AI,
   please check out the Machine Intelligence Research Institute,
   my employer, at intelligence dot org.

   If you wish to acquire improved rationality skills in your own life,
   please visit the Center for Applied Rationality at rationality dot org,
   and consider attending one of their workshops.

   A forum for general discussion of human rationality, along with many
   fine essays
   and two years of daily rationalityblogging on my part, may be found at
   lesswrong dot com.
   Please keep in mind that LessWrong dot com is an open forum, on the
   Internet,
   and that not everything someone posts there is representative of my or
   anyone else's opinion.

   Progress Reports (not a story update, a note on writing progress)
   appear on the 1st of each month at 5pm Pacific Time
   at hpmor dot com slash notes.
   Chapter 11: Omake Files 1, 2, 3

   Hail the Dark Lord Rowling.

   "Omake" is a non-canonical extra.
     __________________________________________________________________

   OMAKE FILES #1: 72 Hours to Victory

   (A.k.a. "What Happens If You Change Harry But Leave All Other
   Characters Constant")

   Dumbledore peered over his desk at young Harry, twinkling in a kindly
   sort of way. The boy had come to him with a terribly intense look on
   his childish face - Dumbledore hoped that whatever this matter was, it
   wasn't too serious. Harry was far too young for his life trials to be
   starting already. "What was it you wished to speak to me about, Harry?"

   Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres leaned forward in his chair, smiling
   grimly. "Headmaster, I got a sharp pain in my scar during the Sorting
   Feast. Considering how and where I got this scar, it didn't seem like
   the sort of thing I should just ignore. I thought at first it was
   because of Professor Snape, but I followed the Baconian experimental
   method which is to find the conditions for both the presence and the
   absence of the phenomenon, and I've determined that my scar hurts if
   and only if I'm facing the back of Professor Quirrell's head,
   whatever's under his turban. While it could be something more
   innocuous, I think we should provisionally assume the worst, that it's
   You-Know-Who - wait, don't look so horrified, this is actually a
   priceless opportunity -"
     __________________________________________________________________

   OMAKE FILES #2: I Ain't Afraid of Dark Lords

   This was the original version of Chapter 9. It was replaced because -
   while many readers did enjoy it - many other readers had massive
   allergies to songs in fanfics, for reasons that should not much need
   belaboring. I didn't want to drive readers away before they got to Ch.
   10.

   Lee Jordan is the fellow prankster of Fred and George (in canon). "Lee
   Jordan" had sounded like a Muggleborn name to me, implying that he
   would be capable of instructing Fred and George on a tune that Harry
   would know. This was not as obvious to some readers as it was to your
   author.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Draco went to Slytherin, and Harry breathed a small sigh of relief. It
   had seemed like a sure thing, but you never did know what tiny event
   might upset the course of your master plan.

   They were approaching the Ps now...

   And over at the Gryffindor table, there was a whispered conversation.

   "What if he doesn't like it?"

   "He's got no right to not like it -

   "- not after the prank he played on -"

   "- Neville Longbottom, his name was -"

   "- he's as fair a fair target now as fair can be."

   "All right. Just make sure you don't forget your parts."

   "We've rehearsed it often enough -"

   "- over the last three hours."

   And Minerva McGonagall, from where she stood at the speaker's podium of
   the Head Table, looked down at the next name on her list. Please don't
   let him be a Gryffindor please don't let him be a Gryffindor OH PLEASE
   don't let him be a Gryffindor... She took a deep breath, and called:

   "Potter, Harry!"

   There was a sudden silence in the hall as all whispered conversation
   stopped.

   A silence broken by a horrible buzzing noise that modulated and changed
   in hideous mockery of musical melody.

   Minerva's head jerked around, shocked, and identified the buzzing noise
   as coming from the Gryffindor direction, where They were standing on
   top of the table blowing into some kind of tiny devices held against
   Their lips. Her hand started to drop to her wand, to Silencio the lot
   of Them, but another sound stopped her.

   Dumbledore was chuckling.

   Minerva's eyes went back to Harry Potter, who had only just started to
   step out of line before he'd stumbled and halted.

   Then the young boy began to walk again, moving his legs in odd sweeping
   motions, and waving his arms back and forth and snapping his fingers,
   in synchrony with Their music.

   To the tune of "Ghostbusters"

   (As performed on the kazoo by Fred and George Weasley,
   and sung by Lee Jordan.)

   .

   There's a Dark Lord near?
   Got no need to fear
   Who you gonna call?

   "HARRY POTTER!" shouted Lee Jordan, and the Weasley twins performed a
   triumphant chorus.

   With a Killing Curse?
   Well it could be worse.
   Who you gonna call?

   "HARRY POTTER!" There were a lot more voices shouting it this time.

   The Weasley Horrors went off into an extended wailing, now accompanied
   by some of the older Muggleborns, who had produced their own tiny
   devices, Transfigured out of the school silverware no doubt. As their
   music reached its anticlimax, Harry Potter shouted:

   I ain't afraid of Dark Lords!

   There was cheering then, especially from the Gryffindor table, and more
   students produced their own antimusical instruments. The hideous
   buzzings redoubled in volume and built to another awful crescendo:

   I ain't afraid of Dark Lords!

   Minerva glanced to both sides of the Head Table, afraid to look but
   with all too good a notion of what she would see.

   Trelawney frantically fanning herself, Flitwick looking on with
   curiosity, Hagrid clapping along to the music, Sprout looking severe,
   and Quirrell gazing at the boy with sardonic amusement. Directly to her
   left, Dumbledore humming along; and directly to her right, Snape
   gripping his empty wine goblet, white-knuckled, so hard that the thick
   silver was slowly deforming.

   Dark robes and a mask?
   Impossible task?
   Who you gonna call?
   HARRY POTTER!

   Giant Fire-Ape?
   Old bat in a cape?
   Who you gonna call?
   HARRY POTTER!

   Minerva's lips set in a white line. She would have words with Them
   about that last verse, if They thought she was powerless because it was
   the first day of school and Gryffindor had no points to take away. If
   They didn't care about detentions then she would find something else.

   Then, with a sudden gasp of horror, she looked in Snape's direction,
   surely he realised the Potter boy must have no idea who that was
   talking about -

   Snape's face had gone beyond rage into a kind of pleasant indifference.
   A faint smile played about his lips. He was looking in the direction of
   Harry Potter, not the Gryffindor table, and his hands held the crumpled
   remains of a former wine goblet...

   And Harry walked forwards, sweeping his arms and legs through the
   motions of the Ghostbusters dance, keeping a smile on his face. It was
   a great setup, had caught him completely by surprise. The least he
   could do was play along and not ruin it all.

   Everyone was cheering him. It made him feel all warm inside and sort of
   awful at the same time.

   They were cheering him for a job he'd done when he was one year old. A
   job he hadn't really finished. Somewhere, somehow, the Dark Lord was
   still alive. Would they have been cheering quite so hard, if they knew
   that?

   But the Dark Lord's power had been broken once.

   And Harry would protect them again. If there was in fact a prophecy and
   that was what it said. Well, actually regardless of what any darn
   prophecy said.

   All those people believing in him and cheering him - Harry couldn't
   stand to let that be false. To flash and fade like so many other child
   prodigies. To be a disappointment. To fail to live up to his reputation
   as a symbol of the Light, never mind how he'd gotten it. He would
   absolutely, positively, no matter how long it took and even if it
   killed him, fulfill their expectations. And then go on to exceed those
   expectations, so that people wondered, looking back, that they had once
   asked so little of him.

   And he shouted out the lie that he'd invented because it scanned well
   and the song called for it:

   I ain't afraid of Dark Lords!
   I ain't afraid of Dark Lords!

   Harry took his last steps toward the Sorting Hat as the music ended. He
   swept a bow to the Order of Chaos at the Gryffindor table, and then
   turned and swept another bow to the other side of the hall, and waited
   for the applause and giggling to die away...
     __________________________________________________________________

   OMAKE FILES #3: Alternate Endings of 'Self-Awareness'

   The offer to tell the whole plot to anyone who guessed what 'has never
   happened before' spurred a lot of interesting attempts. The first omake
   below is taken directly from my personal favorite answer, by
   Meteoricshipyards. The second is based on Kazuma's suggestion for what
   "has never happened before", the third on a combination of yoyoente and
   dougal74, the fourth on wolf550e's review of chapter 10. The one that
   starts with 'K', and the one just above that, are from DarkHeart81. The
   others are my own. Anyone who wants to pick up one of my own ideas and
   run with them, particularly the last one, is welcome to do so. And
   before I get 100 indignant complaints, yes, I am well aware that the
   legislative body of the UK is the House of Commons in Parliament.
     __________________________________________________________________

   ...In the back of his mind, he wondered if the Sorting Hat was
   genuinely conscious in the sense of being aware of its own awareness,
   and if so, whether it was satisfied with only getting to talk to
   eleven-year-olds once per year. Its song had implied so: Oh, I'm the
   Sorting Hat and I'm okay, I sleep all year and I work one day...

   When there was once more silence in the room, Harry sat on the stool
   and carefully placed onto his head the 800-year-old telepathic artefact
   of forgotten magic.

   Thinking, just as hard as he could: Don't Sort me yet! I have questions
   I need to ask you! Have I ever been Obliviated? Did you Sort the Dark
   Lord when he was a child and can you tell me about his weaknesses? Can
   you tell me why I got the brother wand to the Dark Lord's? Is the Dark
   Lord's ghost bound to my scar and is that why I get so angry sometimes?
   Those are the most important questions, but if you've got another
   moment can you tell me anything about how to rediscover the lost magics
   that created you?

   And the Sorting Hat answered, "No. Yes. No. No. Yes and no, next time
   don't ask double questions. No." and out loud, "RAVENCLAW!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."

   What?

   "I'm allergic to your hair shampoo -"

   And then the Sorting Hat sneezed, with a mighty "A-CHOO!" that echoed
   around the Great Hall.

   "Well!" Dumbledore cried jovially. "It seems Harry Potter has been
   sorted into the new House of Achoo! McGonagall, you can serve as the
   Head of House Achoo. You'd better hurry up on making arrangements for
   Achoo's curriculum and classes, tomorrow is the first day!"

   "But, but, but," stammered McGonagall, her mind in nearly complete
   disarray, "who will be Head of House Gryffindor?" It was all she could
   think of, she had to stop this somehow...

   Dumbledore put a finger to his cheek, looking thoughtful. "Snape."

   Snape's screech of protest nearly drowned out McGonagall's, "Then who
   will be Head of Slytherin?"

   "Hagrid."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Don't Sort me yet! I have questions I need to ask you! Have I ever been
   Obliviated? Did you Sort the Dark Lord when he was a child and can you
   tell me about his weaknesses? Can you tell me why I got the brother
   wand to the Dark Lord's? Is the Dark Lord's ghost bound to my scar and
   is that why I get so angry sometimes? Those are the most important
   questions, but if you've got another moment can you tell me anything
   about how to rediscover the lost magics that created you?

   There was a brief pause.

   Hello? Do I need to repeat the questions?

   The Sorting Hat screamed, an awful high-pitched sound that echoed
   through the Great Hall and caused most of the students to clap their
   hands over their ears. With a desperate yowl, it leapt off Harry
   Potter's head and bounded across the floor, pushing itself along with
   its brim, and made it halfway to the Head Table before it exploded.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "SLYTHERIN!"

   Seeing the look of horror on Harry Potter's face, Fred Weasley thought
   faster than he ever had in his life. In a single motion he whipped out
   his wand, whispered "Silencio!" and then "Changemyvoiceio!" and finally
   "Ventriliquo!"

   "Just kidding!" said Fred Weasley. "GRYFFINDOR!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."

   What?

   "Ordinarily I would refer such questions to the Headmaster, who could
   ask me in turn, if he wished. But some of the information you've asked
   for is not only beyond your own user level, but beyond the
   Headmaster's."

   How can I raise my user level?

   "I'm afraid I am not allowed to answer that question at your current
   user level."

   What options are available at my user level?

   After that it didn't take long -

   "ROOT!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."

   What?

   "I've had to tell students before that they were mothers - it would
   break your heart to know what I saw in their minds - but this is the
   first time I've ever had to tell someone they were a father."

   WHAT?

   "Draco Malfoy is carrying your baby."

   WHAAAAAAAT?

   "To repeat: Draco Malfoy is carrying your baby."

   But we're only eleven -

   "Actually, Draco is secretly thirteen years old."

   B-b-but men can't get pregnant -

   "And a girl under those clothes."

   BUT WE'VE NEVER HAD SEX, YOU IDIOT!

   "SHE OBLIVIATED YOU AFTER THE RAPE, MORON!"

   Harry Potter fainted. His unconscious body fell off the stool with a
   dull thud.

   "RAVENCLAW!" called out the Hat from where it lay on top of his head.
   That had been even funnier than its first idea.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "ELF!"

   Huh? Harry remembered Draco mentioning a 'House Elf', but what was that
   exactly?

   Judging by the appalled looks dawning on the faces around him, it
   wasn't anything good -
     __________________________________________________________________

   "PANCAKES!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "REPRESENTATIVES!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."

   What?

   "I've never Sorted someone who was a reincarnation of Godric Gryffindor
   AND Salazar Slytherin AND Naruto."
     __________________________________________________________________

   "ATREIDES!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Fooled you again! HUFFLEPUFF! SLYTHERIN! HUFFLEPUFF!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "PICKLED STEWBERRIES!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "KHAAANNNN!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   At the Head Table, Dumbledore went on smiling benignly; small metallic
   sounds occasionally came from Snape's direction as he idly compacted
   the twisted remains of what had once been a heavy silver wine goblet;
   and Minerva McGonagall clenched the podium in a white-knuckled grip,
   knowing that Harry Potter's contagious chaos had infected the Sorting
   Hat itself.

   Scenario after scenario played out through Minerva's head, each worse
   than the last. The Hat would say that Harry was too evenly balanced
   between Houses to Sort, and decide that he belonged to all of them. The
   Hat would proclaim that Harry's mind was too strange to be Sorted. The
   Hat would demand that Harry be expelled from Hogwarts. The Hat had gone
   into a coma. The Hat would insist that a whole new House of Doom be
   created just to accomodate Harry Potter, and Dumbledore would make her
   do it...

   Minerva remembered what Harry had told her in that disastrous trip to
   Diagon Alley, about the... planning fallacy, she thought it had been...
   and how people were usually too optimistic, even when they thought they
   were being pessimistic. It was the sort of information that preyed on
   your mind, dwelling in it and spinning off nightmares...

   But what was the worst that could happen?

   Well... in the worst-case scenario, the Hat would assign Harry to a
   whole new House. Dumbledore would insist that she do it - create a
   whole new House just for him - and she'd have to rearrange all the
   class schedules on the first day of term. And Dumbledore would remove
   her as Head of House Gryffindor, and give her beloved House over to...
   Professor Binns, the History ghost; and she would be assigned as Head
   of Harry's House of Doom; and she would futilely try to give the child
   orders, deducting point after point without effect, while disaster
   after disaster was blamed on her.

   Was that the worst-case scenario?

   Minerva honestly didn't see how it could be any worse than that.

   And even in the very worst case - no matter what happened with Harry -
   it would all be over in seven years.

   Minerva felt her knuckles slowly relax their white-knuckled grip on the
   podium. Harry had been right, there was a kind of comfort in staring
   directly into the furthest depths of the darkness, knowing that you had
   confronted your worst fears and were now prepared.

   The frightened silence was broken by a single word.

   "Headmaster!" called the Sorting Hat.

   At the Head Table, Dumbledore rose, his face puzzled. "Yes?" he
   addressed the Hat. "What is it?"

   "I wasn't talking to you," said the Hat. "I was Sorting Harry Potter
   into the place in Hogwarts where he most belongs, namely the
   Headmaster's office -"
   Chapter 12: Impulse Control

   ph'nglui mglw'nafh J. K. Rowling wgah'nagl fhtagn
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Wonder what's wrong with him."
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Turpin, Lisa!"

   Whisper whisper whisper harry potter whisper whisper slytherin whisper
   whisper no seriously what the hell whisper whisper

   "RAVENCLAW!"

   Harry joined in the applause greeting the young girl walking shyly
   towards the Ravenclaw table, her robes' trim now changed to dark blue.
   Lisa Turpin appeared torn between her impulse to sit down as far away
   from Harry Potter as possible, and her impulse to run over, forcibly
   insert herself at his side and start tearing answers out of him.

   Being at the center of an extraordinary and curious event, and then
   being Sorted into House Ravenclaw, was closely akin to being dipped in
   barbecue sauce and flung into a pit of starving kittens.

   "I promised the Sorting Hat not to talk about it," whispered Harry for
   the umpteenth time.

   "Yes, really."

   "No, I really did promise the Sorting Hat not to talk about it."

   "Fine, I promised the Sorting Hat not to talk about most of it and the
   rest is private just like yours was so stop asking."

   "You want to know what happened? Fine! Here's part of what happened! I
   told the Hat that Professor McGonagall threatened to set it on fire and
   it told me to tell Professor McGonagall that she was an impudent
   youngster and she should get off its lawn!"

   "If you're not going to believe what I say then why are you even
   asking?"

   "No, I don't know how I defeated the Dark Lord either! You tell me if
   you figure it out!"

   "Silence!" shouted Professor McGonagall at the podium of the Head
   Table. "No talking until the Sorting Ceremony finishes!"

   There was a brief dip in the volume, as everyone waited to see if she
   was going to make any specific and credible threats, and then the
   whispers started up again.

   Then the silver-bearded ancient stood up from his great golden chair,
   smiling cheerfully.

   Instant silence. Someone frantically elbowed Harry as he tried to
   continue a whisper, and Harry cut himself off in mid-sentence.

   The cheerful-looking old man sat down again.

   Note to self: Do not mess with Dumbledore.

   Harry was still trying to process everything that had happened during
   the Incident with the Sorting Hat. Not the least of which was what had
   happened the instant Harry had lifted the Hat off his head; in that
   moment, he'd heard a tiny whisper as though from nowhere, something
   that sounded oddly like English and a hiss at the same time, something
   that had said, "Ssalutations from Sslytherin to Sslytherin: if you
   would sseek my ssecretss, sspeak to my ssnake."

   Harry was sorta guessing that wasn't supposed to be part of the
   official Sorting process. And that it was a bit of extra magic set down
   by Salazar Slytherin during the making of the Hat. And that the Hat
   itself didn't know about it. And that it was triggered when the Hat
   said "SLYTHERIN", plus or minus some other conditions. And that a
   Ravenclaw like himself really, really wasn't supposed to have heard it.
   And that if he could find some reliable way of swearing Draco to
   secrecy so he could ask him about it, that would be an excellent time
   to have some Comed-Tea handy.

   Boy, you resolve not to go down the path of a Dark Lord and the
   universe starts messing with you the instant the Hat comes off your
   head. Some days it just doesn't pay to fight destiny. Maybe I'll wait
   until tomorrow to start on my resolution to not be a Dark Lord.

   "GRYFFINDOR!"

   Ron Weasley got a lot of applause, and not just from the Gryffindors.
   Apparently the Weasley family was widely liked around here. Harry,
   after a moment, smiled and started applauding along with the others.

   Then again, there was no time like today to turn back from the Dark
   Side.

   Stuff destiny and stuff the universe. He'd show that Hat.

   "Zabini, Blaise!"

   Pause.

   "SLYTHERIN!" shouted the hat.

   Harry applauded Zabini too, ignoring the odd looks he was getting from
   everyone including Zabini.

   No other name was called out after that, and Harry realised that
   "Zabini, Blaise" did sound close to the end of the alphabet. Great, so
   now he'd only applauded Zabini... Oh well.

   Dumbledore got up again and began heading towards the podium.
   Apparently they were about to be treated to a speech -

   And Harry was struck by the inspiration for a brilliant experimental
   test.

   Hermione had said that Dumbledore was the most powerful wizard alive,
   right?

   Harry reached into his pouch and whispered, "Comed-Tea".

   For the Comed-Tea to work, it would have to make Dumbledore say
   something so ridiculous during his speech that even in Harry's state of
   mental preparedness, he would still choke. Like, all the Hogwarts
   students had to not wear any clothes for the whole school year, or
   everyone was going to be transformed into cats.

   But then if anyone in the world could resist the power of the
   Comed-Tea, it would be Dumbledore. So if this worked, the Comed-Tea was
   literally invincible.

   Harry pulled the ring on the Comed-Tea under the table, wanting to do
   this a bit unobtrusively. The can made a quiet hissing noise. A few
   heads turned to look at him, but soon turned back as -

   "Welcome! Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts!" said Dumbledore, beaming
   at the students with his arms opened wide, as if nothing could have
   pleased him more than to see them all there.

   Harry took a first mouthful of Comed-Tea and lowered the can again. He
   would swallow the pop a little at a time and try not to choke no matter
   what Dumbledore said -

   "Before we begin our banquet, I would like to say a few words. And here
   they are: Happy happy boom boom swamp swamp swamp! Thank you!"

   Everyone clapped and cheered, and Dumbledore sat down again.

   Harry sat frozen as pop trickled out of the corners of his mouth. He
   had, at least, managed to choke quietly.

   He really really really shouldn't have done that. Amazing how much more
   obvious that became one second after it was too late.

   In retrospect he probably should have noticed something wrong when he
   was thinking about everyone being turned into cats... or even before
   then, remembered his mental note not to mess with Dumbledore... or his
   newfound resolution to be more considerate of others... or maybe if
   he'd had one single scrap of common sense...

   It was hopeless. He was corrupt to the core. Hail the Dark Lord Harry.
   You couldn't fight fate.

   Someone was asking Harry if he was all right. (Others were starting to
   serve themselves food, which had magically appeared on the table,
   whatever.)

   "I'm all right," Harry said. "Excuse me. Um. Was that a... normal
   speech for the Headmaster? You all... didn't seem... very surprised..."

   "Oh, Dumbledore's insane, of course," said an older-looking Ravenclaw
   sitting next to him who had introduced himself with some name Harry
   didn't even begin to remember. "Lots of fun, incredibly powerful
   wizard, but completely bonkers." He paused. "At some later point I'd
   also like to ask why green fluid came out of your lips and then
   disappeared, though I expect you promised the Sorting Hat not to talk
   about that either."

   With a great effort, Harry stopped himself from glancing down at the
   incriminating can of Comed-Tea in his hand.

   After all, the Comed-Tea hadn't just arbitrarily materialised a
   Quibbler headline about him and Draco. Draco had explained it in a way
   that made it seem like it had all happened... naturally? As if it had
   altered history to fit?

   Harry was mentally imagining himself banging his forehead against the
   table. Wham, wham, wham went his head within his mind.

   Another student lowered her voice to a whisper. "I hear that Dumbledore
   is secretly a genius mastermind controlling lots of stuff and he uses
   the insanity as a cover so that no one will suspect him."

   "I've heard that too," whispered a third student, and there were
   furtive nods from around the table.

   This couldn't help but catch Harry's attention.

   "I see," whispered Harry, lowering his own voice. "So everyone knows
   that Dumbledore is secretly a mastermind."

   Most of the students nodded. One or two looked suddenly thoughtful,
   including the older student sitting next to Harry.

   Are you sure this is the Ravenclaw table? Harry managed not to ask out
   loud.

   "Brilliant!" Harry whispered. "If everyone knows, no one will suspect
   it's a secret!"

   "Exactly," whispered a student, and then he frowned. "Wait, that
   doesn't sound quite right -"

   Note to self: The 75th percentile of Hogwarts students a.k.a. Ravenclaw
   House is not the world's most exclusive program for gifted children.

   But at least he'd learned an important fact today. The Comed-Tea was
   omnipotent. And that meant...

   Harry blinked in surprise as his mind finally made the obvious
   connection.

   ...that meant that as soon as he learned a spell to temporarily alter
   his own sense of humor, he could make anything happen, by making it so
   that he would only find that one thing surprising enough to do a
   spit-take, and then drinking a can of Comed-Tea.

   Well that was a short little journey to godhood. Even I expected this
   to take longer than my first day of school.

   Come to think of it, he had also completely wrecked Hogwarts within ten
   minutes flat of getting Sorted.

   Harry did feel a certain amount of regret about this - Merlin knew what
   an insane Headmaster was going to do to his next seven years of
   schooling - but he couldn't help feeling a twinge of pride, too.

   Tomorrow. No later than tomorrow at the very latest he was going to
   stop walking down the path that led to Dark Lord Harry. A prospect
   which was sounding scarier by the minute.

   And yet also, somehow, increasingly attractive. Part of his mind was
   already visualising the minions' uniforms.

   "Eat," the older student sitting next to him growled, and jabbed Harry
   in the ribs. "Don't think. Eat."

   Harry automatically started loading up his plate with whatever was in
   front of him, blue sausages with tiny glowing bits, whatever.

   "What were you thinking about, the Sorting -" began to say Padma Patil,
   one of the other first-year Ravenclaws.

   "No pestering during mealtimes!" chorused at least three people. "House
   Rule!" added another. "Otherwise we'd all starve around here."

   Harry was finding himself really, really hoping that his clever new
   idea didn't actually work. And that the Comed-Tea worked some other way
   and didn't actually have the omnipotent power to alter reality. It
   wasn't that he didn't want to be omnipotent. It was that he just
   couldn't bear the thought of living in a universe that really worked
   like that. There was something undignified about ascending through the
   clever use of fizzy drinks.

   But he was going to test it experimentally.

   "You know," said the older student next to him in a quite pleasant
   tone, "we have a system for forcing people like you to eat, would you
   like to find out what it is?"

   Harry gave up and started eating his blue sausage. It was quite good,
   especially the glowing bits.

   Dinner passed with surprising rapidity. Harry tried to sample at least
   a little of all the weird new foods he saw. His curiosity couldn't
   stand the thought of not knowing how something tasted. Thank goodness
   this wasn't a restaurant where you had to order only one thing and you
   never found out what all the other things on the menu tasted like.
   Harry hated that, it was like a torture chamber for anyone with a spark
   of curiosity: Find out about only one of the mysteries on this list, ha
   ha ha!

   Then it was time for dessert, which Harry had completely forgotten to
   leave room for. He gave up after sampling a small bit of treacle tart.
   Surely all these things would pass around at least once again over the
   course of the school year.

   So what was on his to-do list, besides the ordinary school things?

   To-do 1. Research mind-alteration charms so you can test the Comed-Tea
   and see whether you actually did figure out a path to omnipotence.
   Actually, just research every kind of mind magic you can find. Mind is
   the foundation of our power as humans, any kind of magic that affects
   it is the most important sort of magic there is.

   To-do 2. Actually this is To-do 1 and the other is To-do 2. Go through
   the bookshelves of the Hogwarts and Ravenclaw libraries, familiarising
   yourself with the system and making sure you've at least read all the
   book titles. Second pass: read all tables of contents. Coordinate with
   Hermione who has a much better memory than you. Find out if there's an
   interlibrary loan system at Hogwarts and see if the two of you,
   especially Hermione, can visit those libraries too. If other Houses
   have private libraries, figure out how to access legally or sneak in.

   Option 3a: Swear Hermione to secrecy and try to start researching 'From
   Slytherin to Slytherin: if you would seek my secrets, speak to my
   snake.' Problem: This sounds highly confidential and it could take
   quite a while to randomly run across a book containing a hint.

   To-do 0: Check out what sort of information-search-and-retrieval spells
   exist, if any. Library magic isn't as ultimately important as mind
   magic but it has a much higher priority.

   Option 3b: Look for a spell to magically bind Draco Malfoy to secrecy,
   or magically verify the sincerity of Draco's promise to keep a secret
   (Veritaserum?), and then ask him about Slytherin's message...

   Actually... Harry had a pretty bad feeling about option 3b.

   Now that Harry thought about it, he didn't feel all that great about
   option 3a, either.

   Harry's thoughts flashed back to possibly the worst moment of his life
   to date, those long seconds of blood-freezing horror beneath the Hat,
   when he thought he'd already failed. He'd wished then to fall back just
   a few minutes in time and change something, anything before it was too
   late...

   And then it had turned out to not be too late after all.

   Wish granted.

   You couldn't change history. But you could get it right to start with.
   Do something differently the first time around.

   This whole business with seeking Slytherin's secrets... seemed an awful
   lot like the sort of thing where, years later, you would look back and
   say, 'And that was where it all started going wrong.'

   And he would wish desperately for the ability to fall back through time
   and make a different choice...

   Wish granted. Now what?

   Harry slowly smiled.

   It was a rather counterintuitive thought... but...

   But he could, there was no rule saying he couldn't, he could just
   pretend he'd never heard that little whisper. Let the universe go on in
   exactly the same way it would have if that one critical moment had
   never occurred. Twenty years later, that was what he would desperately
   wish had happened twenty years ago, and twenty years before twenty
   years later happened to be right now. Altering the distant past was
   easy, you just had to think of it at the right time.

   Or... this was even more counterintuitive... he could even inform, oh,
   say, Professor McGonagall, instead of Draco or Hermione. And she could
   get a few good people together and get that little extra spell taken
   off the Hat.

   Why, yes. That sounded like a remarkably good idea once Harry had
   actually thought of it.

   So very obvious in retrospect, and yet somehow, Option 3c and Option 3d
   just hadn't occurred to him.

   Harry awarded himself +1 point on his anti-Dark-Lord-Harry program.

   It had been an awfully cruel prank the Hat had played on him, but you
   couldn't argue with the results on consequentialist grounds. It
   certainly did give him a better idea of the victim's perspective,
   though.

   To-do 4: Apologise to Neville Longbottom.

   Okay, he was on a roll here, now he just had to keep it up. In every
   day, in every way, I'm getting Lighter and Lighter...

   People around Harry had also mostly stopped eating at this point, and
   the dessert serving dishes began to vanish, and the used plates.

   When all the plates were gone, Dumbledore once again stood up from his
   seat.

   Harry couldn't help but feel the urge to drink another Comed-Tea.

   You've GOT to be kidding, Harry thought at that piece of himself.

   But the experiment didn't count if it wasn't replicated, did it? And
   the damage was already done, wasn't it? Didn't he want to see what
   would happen this time? Wasn't he curious? What if he got a different
   result?

   Hey, I bet you're the same part of my brain that pushed through the
   prank on Neville Longbottom.

   Er, maybe?

   And is it not overwhelmingly obvious that if I do this I shall regret
   it one second after it is too late?

   Um...

   Yeah. So, NO.

   "Ahem," said Dumbledore from the podium, stroking his long silver
   beard. "Just a few more words now that we are all fed and watered. I
   have a few start-of-term notices to give you."

   "First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to
   all pupils. That is why it is called the Forbidden Forest. If it were
   permitted it would be called the Permitted Forest."

   Straightforward. Note to self: Forbidden Forest is forbidden.

   "I have also been asked by Mr. Filch, the caretaker, to remind you all
   that no magic should be used between classes in the corridors. Alas, we
   all know that what should be, and what is, are two different things.
   Thank you for keeping this in mind."

   Er...

   "Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of the term. Anyone
   interested in playing for their house teams should contact Madam Hooch.
   Anyone interested in reformulating the entire game of Quidditch should
   contact Harry Potter."

   Harry inhaled his own saliva and went into a coughing fit just as all
   eyes turned towards him. How the hell! He hadn't met Dumbledore's eyes
   at any point... he didn't think. He certainly hadn't been thinking
   about Quidditch at the time! He hadn't talked to anyone but Ron Weasley
   and he didn't think Ron would have told anyone else... or had Ron run
   off to a professor to complain? How on Earth...

   "Additionally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floor corridor
   on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish
   to die a very painful death. It is guarded by an elaborate series of
   dangerous and potentially lethal traps, and you cannot possibly get
   past all of them, especially if you are only in your first year."

   Harry was numb at this point.

   "And finally, I extend my greatest thanks to Quirinus Quirrell for
   heroically agreeing to undertake the position of Defence Against the
   Dark Arts Professor at Hogwarts." Dumbledore's gaze moved searchingly
   across the students. "I hope all students will extend Professor
   Quirrell that utmost courtesy and tolerance which is due his
   extraordinary service to you and this school, and that you will not
   pester us with any niggling complaints about him, unless you want to
   try doing his job."

   What was that about?

   "I now yield the floor to our new faculty member Professor Quirrell,
   who would like to say a few words."

   The young, thin, nervous man who Harry had first met in the Leaky
   Cauldron slowly made his way up to the podium, glancing fearfully
   around in all directions. Harry caught a glimpse of the back of his
   head, and it looked like Professor Quirrell might already be going
   bald, despite his seeming youth.

   "Wonder what's wrong with him," whispered the older-looking student
   sitting next to Harry. Similar hushed comments were being exchanged
   elsewhere along the table.

   Professor Quirrell made his way up to the podium and stood there,
   blinking. "Ah..." he said. "Ah..." Then his courage seemed to fail him
   utterly, and he stood there in silence, occasionally twitching.

   "Oh, great," whispered the older student, "looks like another long year
   in Defence class -"

   "Salutations, my young apprentices," Professor Quirrell said in a dry,
   confident tone. "We all know that Hogwarts tends to suffer a certain
   misfortune in its selections for this position, and no doubt many of
   you are already wondering what doom shall befall me this year. I assure
   you, that doom is not to be my incompetence." He smiled thinly.
   "Believe it or not, I have long wished to someday try my hand as the
   Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts here at the Hogwarts School
   of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The first to teach this class was Salazar
   Slytherin himself, and as late as the fourteenth century it was
   traditional for the greatest fighting wizards of every persuasion to
   try their hands at teaching here. Past Professors of Defence have
   included not just the legendary wandering hero Harold Shea but also the
   quote undying unquote Baba Yaga, yes, I see some of you are still
   shuddering at the sound of her name even though she's been dead for six
   hundred years. That must have been an interesting time to attend
   Hogwarts, don't you think?"

   Harry was swallowing hard, trying to suppress the sudden surge of
   emotion that had overcome him when Professor Quirrell had begun
   speaking. The precise tones reminded him very much of a lecturer at
   Oxford, and it was starting to hit home that Harry wasn't going to see
   his home or his Mum or his Dad until Christmas.

   "You are accustomed to the Defence position being filled by
   incompetents, scoundrels, and the unlucky. To anyone with a sense of
   history, it bears another reputation entirely. Not everyone who teaches
   here has been the best, but the best have all taught at Hogwarts. In
   such august company, and after so much time anticipating this day, I
   would be ashamed to set myself any standard lower than perfection. And
   so I do intend that every one of you will always remember this year as
   the best Defence class that you have ever had. What you learn this year
   will forever serve as your firm foundation in the arts of Defence, no
   matter who your teachers before and after."

   Professor Quirrell's expression grew serious. "We have a great deal of
   lost ground to make up and not much time to cover it. Therefore I
   intend to depart from Hogwarts teaching conventions in a number of
   respects, as well as introducing some optional after-school
   activities." He paused. "If that is not sufficient, perhaps I can find
   new ways to motivate you. You are my long-awaited students, and you
   will do your very best in my long-awaited Defence class. I would add
   some sort of dreadful threat, like 'Otherwise you will suffer
   horribly', but that would be so cliched, don't you think? I pride
   myself on being more imaginative than that. Thank you."

   Then the vigour and confidence seemed to drain away from Professor
   Quirrell. His mouth gaped open as if he had suddenly found himself
   facing an unexpected audience, and he turned with a convulsive jerk and
   shuffled back to his seat, hunched over as if he was about to collapse
   in on himself and implode.

   "He seems a little odd," whispered Harry.

   "Meh," said the older-looking student. "You ain't seen nothin'."

   Dumbledore resumed the podium.

   "And now," said Dumbledore, "before we go to bed, let us sing the
   school song! Everyone pick their favourite tune and favourite words,
   and off we go!"
   Chapter 13: Asking the Wrong Questions

   Elen sila J. K. Rowling omentielvo.

   EDIT: Don't panic. I solemnly swear that there is a logical,
   foreshadowed, canon-compliant explanation for everything which happens
   in this chapter. It's a puzzle, you're supposed to try to solve it, and
   if not, just read the next chapter.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "That's one of the most obvious riddles I've ever heard."
     __________________________________________________________________

   As soon as Harry opened his eyes in the Ravenclaw first-year boys'
   dormitory, on the morning of his first full day at Hogwarts, he knew
   something was wrong.

   It was quiet.

   Too quiet.

   Oh, right... There was a Quietus Charm on his bed's headboard,
   controlled by a small slider bar, which was the only reason it was ever
   possible for anyone to go to sleep in Ravenclaw.

   Harry sat up and looked around, expecting to see others rising for the
   day -

   The dorm, empty.

   The beds, rumpled and unmade.

   The sun, coming in at a rather high angle.

   His Quieter turned all the way up to maximum.

   And his mechanical alarm clock was still running, but the alarm was
   turned off.

   He'd been allowed to sleep until 9:52 AM, apparently. Despite his best
   efforts to synchronize his 26-hour sleep cycle to his arrival at
   Hogwarts, he hadn't gotten to sleep last night until around 1AM. He'd
   been planning to wake up at 7:00AM with the other students, he could
   stand being a little sleep-deprived his first day so long as he got
   some sort of magical fix before tomorrow. But now he'd missed
   breakfast. And his very first class at Hogwarts, in Herbology, had
   started one hour and twenty-two minutes ago.

   The anger was slowly, slowly wakening in him. Oh, what a nice little
   prank. Turn off his alarm. Turn up the Quieter. And let Mr. Bigshot
   Harry Potter miss his first class, and be blamed for being a heavy
   sleeper.

   When Harry found out who'd done this...

   No, this could only have been done with the cooperation of all twelve
   other boys in the Ravenclaw dorm. All of them would have seen his
   sleeping form. All of them had let him sleep through breakfast.

   The anger drained away, replaced by confusion and a horribly wounded
   feeling. They'd liked him. He'd thought. Last night, he'd thought they
   liked him. Why...

   As Harry stepped out of the bed, he saw a piece of paper facing out
   from his headboard.

   The paper said,

   My fellow Ravenclaws,

   It's been an extra long day. Please let me sleep in and don't worry
   about my missing breakfast. I haven't forgotten about my first class.

   Yours,
   Harry Potter.

   And Harry stood there, frozen, ice water beginning to trickle through
   his veins.

   The paper was in his own handwriting, in his own mechanical pencil.

   And he didn't remember writing it.

   And... Harry squinted at the piece of paper. And unless he was
   imagining it, the words "I haven't forgotten" were written in a
   different style, as if he was trying to tell himself something...?

   Had he known he was going to be Obliviated? Had he stayed up late,
   committed some sort of crime or covert activity, and then... but he
   didn't know the Obliviate spell... had someone else... what...

   A thought occurred to Harry. If he had known he was going to be
   Obliviated...

   Still in his pyjamas, Harry ran around his bed to his trunk, pressed
   his thumb against the lock, pulled out his pouch, stuck in his hand and
   said "Note to myself."

   And another piece of paper popped into his hand.

   Harry took it out, staring at it. It too was in his own handwriting.

   The note said:

   Dear Me,

   Please play the game. You can only play the game once in a lifetime.
   This is an irreplaceable opportunity.

   Recognition code 927, I am a potato.

   Yours,
   You.

   Harry nodded slowly. "Recognition code 927, I am a potato" was indeed
   the message he had worked out in advance - some years earlier, while
   watching TV - that only he would know. If he had to identify a
   duplicate of himself as being really him, or something. Just in case.
   Be Prepared.

   Harry couldn't trust the message, there might be other spells involved.
   But it ruled out any simple prank. He had definitely written this and
   he definitely didn't remember writing it.

   Staring at the paper, Harry became aware of ink showing through from
   the other side.

   He flipped it over.

   The reverse side read:

   INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE GAME:

   you do not know the rules of the game
   you do not know the stakes of the game
   you do not know the objective of the game
   you do not know who controls the game
   you do not know how to end the game

   You start with 100 points.
   Begin.

   Harry stared at the "instructions". This side wasn't handwritten; the
   writing was perfectly regular, hence artificial. It looked as if it had
   been inscribed by a Quotes Quill, such as the one he'd bought to take
   dictation.

   He had absolutely no clue what was going on.

   Well... step one was to get dressed and eat. Maybe reverse the order of
   that. His stomach felt rather empty.

   He'd missed breakfast, of course, but he was Prepared for that
   eventuality, having visualised it in advance. Harry put his hand into
   his pouch and said "Snack bars", expecting to get the box of cereal
   bars he'd bought before departing for Hogwarts.

   What popped up did not feel like a box of cereal bars.

   When Harry brought his hand into his field of vision he saw two tiny
   candy bars - not nearly enough for a meal - attached to a note, and the
   note was inscribed in the same writing as the game instructions.

   The note said:

   ATTEMPT FAILED: -1 POINT
   CURRENT POINTS: 99
   PHYSICAL STATE: STILL HUNGRY
   MENTAL STATE: CONFUSED

   "Gleehhhhh" Harry's mouth said without any sort of conscious
   intervention or decision on his part.

   He stood there for around a minute.

   One minute later, it still didn't make any sense and he still had
   absolutely no idea what was going on and his brain hadn't even begun to
   grasp at any hypotheses like his mental hands were encased in rubber
   balls and couldn't pick anything up.

   His stomach, which had its own priorities, suggested a possible
   experimental probe.

   "Ah..." Harry said to the empty room. "I don't suppose I could spend a
   point and get my box of cereal bars back?"

   There was only silence.

   Harry put his hand into the pouch and said "Box of cereal bars."

   A box that felt like the right shape popped up into his hand... but it
   was too light, and it was open, and it was empty, and the note attached
   to it said:

   POINTS SPENT: 1
   CURRENT POINTS: 98
   YOU HAVE GAINED: A BOX OF CEREAL BARS

   "I'd like to spend one point and get the actual cereal bars back," said
   Harry.

   Again, silence.

   Harry put his hand into the pouch and said "cereal bars".

   Nothing came up.

   Harry shrugged despairingly and went over to the cabinet he'd been
   given near his bed, to get his wizard's robes for the day.

   On the floor of the cabinet, under his robes, were the cereal bars, and
   a note:

   POINTS SPENT: 1
   CURRENT POINTS: 97
   YOU HAVE GAINED: 6 CEREAL BARS
   YOU ARE STILL WEARING: PYJAMAS
   DO NOT EAT WHILE YOU ARE WEARING YOUR PYJAMAS
   YOU WILL GET A PYJAMA PENALTY

   And now I know that whoever controls the game is insane.

   "My guess is that the game is controlled by Dumbledore," Harry said out
   loud. Maybe this time he could set a new land speed record for being
   quick on the uptake.

   Silence.

   But Harry was starting to pick up the pattern; the note would be in the
   next place he looked. So Harry looked under his bed.

   HA! HA HA HA HA HA!
   HA HA HA HA HA HA!
   HA! HA! HA! HA! HA! HA!
   DUMBLEDORE DOES NOT CONTROL THE GAME
   BAD GUESS
   VERY BAD GUESS
   -20 POINTS
   AND YOU ARE STILL WEARING PYJAMAS
   IT IS YOUR FOURTH MOVE
   AND YOU ARE STILL WEARING PYJAMAS
   PYJAMA PENALTY: -2 POINTS
   CURRENT POINTS: 75

   Welp, that was a puzzler, all right. It was only his first day at
   school and once you ruled out Dumbledore, he didn't know the name of
   anyone else here who was this crazy.

   His body more or less on autopilot, Harry gathered up a set of robes
   and underwear, pulled out the cavern level of his trunk (he was a very
   private sort of person and someone might walk into the dorm), got
   dressed, and then went back upstairs to put away his pyjamas.

   Harry paused before pulling out the cabinet drawer that held his
   pyjamas. If the pattern here held true...

   "How can I earn more points?" Harry said out loud.

   Then he pulled out the drawer.

   OPPORTUNITIES TO DO GOOD ARE EVERYWHERE
   BUT DARKNESS IS WHERE THE LIGHT NEEDS TO BE
   COST OF QUESTION: 1 POINT
   CURRENT POINTS: 74
   NICE UNDERWEAR
   DID YOUR MOTHER PICK THEM OUT?

   Harry crushed the note in his hand, face flaming scarlet. Draco's curse
   came back to him. Son of a mudblood -

   At this point he knew better than to say it out loud. He would probably
   get a Profanity Penalty.

   Harry girded himself with his mokeskin pouch and wand. He peeled off
   the wrapper of one his cereal bars and threw it into the room's rubbish
   bin, where it landed atop a mostly-uneaten Chocolate Frog, a crumpled
   envelope and some green and red wrapping paper. He put the other cereal
   bars into his mokeskin pouch.

   He looked around in a final, desperate, and ultimately futile search
   for clues.

   And then Harry left the dorm, eating as he went, in search of the
   Slytherin dungeons. At least that was what he thought the line was
   about.

   Trying to navigate the halls of Hogwarts was like... probably not quite
   as bad as wandering around inside an Escher painting, that was the sort
   of thing you said for rhetorical effect rather than for its being true.

   A short time later, Harry was thinking that in fact an Escher painting
   would have both pluses and minuses compared to Hogwarts. Minuses: No
   consistent gravitational orientation. Pluses: At least the stairs
   wouldn't move around WHILE YOU WERE STILL ON THEM.

   Harry had originally climbed four flights of stairs to get to his dorm.
   After clambering down no fewer than twelve flights of stairs without
   getting anywhere near the dungeons, Harry had concluded that (1) an
   Escher painting would be a cakewalk by comparison, (2) he was somehow
   higher in the castle than when he'd started, and (3) he was so
   thoroughly lost that he wouldn't have been surprised to look out of the
   next window and see two moons in the sky.

   Backup plan A had been to stop and ask for directions, but there seemed
   to be an extreme lack of people wandering around, as if the beggars
   were all attending class the way they were supposed to or something.

   Backup plan B...

   "I'm lost," Harry said out loud. "Can, um, the spirit of the Hogwarts
   castle help me or something?"

   "I don't think this castle has a spirit," observed a wizened old lady
   in one of the paintings on the walls. "Life, perhaps, but not spirit."

   There was a brief pause.

   "Are you -" Harry said, and then shut his mouth. On second thought, no
   he was NOT going to ask the painting whether it was fully conscious in
   the sense of being aware of its own awareness.

   "I'm Harry Potter," said his mouth, more or less on autopilot. Also
   more or less automatically, Harry stuck out a hand towards the
   painting.

   The woman in the painting looked down at Harry's hand and raised her
   eyebrows.

   Slowly, the hand dropped back to Harry's side.

   "Sorry," Harry said, "I'm sort of new here."

   "So I perceive, young raven. Where are you trying to go?"

   Harry hesitated. "I'm not really sure," he said.

   "Then perhaps you are already there."

   "Well, wherever I am trying to go, I don't think this is it..." Harry
   shut his mouth, aware of just how much he was sounding like an idiot.
   "Let me start over. I'm playing this game only I don't know what the
   rules are -" That didn't really work either, did it. "Okay, third try.
   I'm looking for opportunities to do good so I can score points, and all
   I have is this cryptic hint about how darkness is where the light needs
   to be, so I was trying to go down but I seem to keep going up
   instead..."

   The old lady in the painting was looking at him rather sceptically.

   Harry sighed. "My life tends to get a bit peculiar."

   "Would it be fair to say that you don't know where you're going or why
   you're trying to get there?"

   "Entirely fair."

   The old lady nodded. "I'm not sure that being lost is your most
   important problem, young man."

   "True, but unlike the more important problems, it's a problem I can
   understand how to solve and wow is this conversation turning into a
   metaphor for human existence, I didn't even realise that was happening
   until just now."

   The lady eyed Harry appraisingly. "You are a fine young raven, aren't
   you? For a moment I was starting to wonder. Well then, as a general
   rule, if you keep on turning left, you're bound to keep going down."

   That sounded strangely familiar but Harry couldn't recall where he'd
   heard it before. "Um... you seem like a very intelligent person. Or a
   picture of a very intelligent person... anyway, have you heard of a
   mysterious game where you can only play once, and they won't tell you
   the rules?"

   "Life," said the lady at once. "That's one of the most obvious riddles
   I've ever heard."

   Harry blinked. "No," he said slowly. "I mean I got an actual note and
   everything saying that I had to play the game but I wouldn't be told
   the rules, and someone is leaving me little slips of paper telling me
   how many points I've lost for violating the rules, like a minus two
   point penalty for wearing pyjamas. Do you know anyone here at Hogwarts
   who's crazy enough and powerful enough to do something like that?
   Besides Dumbledore, I mean?"

   The picture of a lady sighed. "I'm only a picture, young man. I
   remember Hogwarts as it was - not Hogwarts as it is. All I can tell you
   is that if this were a riddle, the answer would be that the game is
   life, and that while we do not make all the rules ourselves, the one
   who awards or takes points is always you. If it is not riddle but
   reality - then I do not know."

   Harry bowed very low to the picture. "Thank you, milady."

   The lady curtseyed to him. "I wish I could say that I'll remember you
   with fondness," she said, "but I probably won't remember you at all.
   Farewell, Harry Potter."

   He bowed again in reply, and started to climb down the nearest flight
   of stairs.

   Four left turns later he found himself staring down a corridor that
   ended, abruptly, in a tumbled mound of large rocks - as if there had
   been a cave-in, only the surrounding walls and ceiling were intact and
   made of quite regular castle stones.

   "All right," Harry said to the empty air, "I give up. I'm asking for
   another hint. How do I get to where I need to go?"

   "A hint! A hint, you say?"

   The excited voice came from a painting on the wall not far away, this
   one a portrait of a middle-aged man in the loudest pink robes that
   Harry had ever seen or even imagined. In the portrait he was wearing a
   droopy old pointed hat with a fish on it (not a drawing of a fish,
   mind, but a fish).

   "Yes!" Harry said. "A hint! A hint, I say! Only not just any hint, I'm
   looking for a specific hint, it's for a game I'm playing -"

   "Yes, yes! A hint for the game! You're Harry Potter, aren't you? I'm
   Cornelion Flubberwalt! I was told by Erin the Consort who was told by
   Lord Weaselnose who was told by, I forget really. But it was a message
   for me to give to you! For me! No one's cared about me in, I don't know
   how long, maybe ever, I've been stuck down here in this bloody useless
   old corridor - a hint! I have your hint! It will only cost you three
   points! Do you want it?"

   "Yes! I want it!" Harry was aware that he probably ought to keep his
   sarcasm under control but he just couldn't seem to help himself.

   "The darkness can be found between the green study rooms and
   McGonagall's Transfiguration class! That's the hint! And get a move on,
   you're slower than a sack of snails! Minus ten points for being slow!
   Now you have 61 points! That was the rest of the message!"

   "Thank you," Harry said. He was really getting behind on the game here.
   "Um... I don't suppose you know where the message originally came from,
   do you?"

   "It was spoken by a hollow voice that belled forth from a gap within
   the air itself, a gap that opened upon a fiery abyss! That's what they
   told me!"

   Harry was no longer sure, at this point, whether this was the sort of
   thing he ought to be sceptical about, or the sort of thing he should
   just take in stride. "And how can I find the line between the green
   study rooms and Transfiguration class?"

   "Just spin back around and go left, right, down, down, right, left,
   right, up, and left again, you'll be at the green study room and if you
   go in and walk straight out the opposite side you'll be on a big curvy
   corridor that goes to an intersection and on the right side of that
   intersection will be a long straight hallway that goes to the
   Transfiguration classroom!" The figure of the middle-aged man paused.
   "At least that's how it was when I was in Hogwarts. This is a Monday on
   an odd-numbered year, isn't it?"

   "Pencil and mechanical paper," Harry said to his pouch. "Er, cancel
   that, paper and mechanical pencil." He looked up. "Could you repeat
   that?"

   After getting lost another two times, Harry felt that he was beginning
   to understand the basic rule for navigating the ever-changing maze that
   was Hogwarts, namely, ask a painting for directions. If this reflected
   some sort of incredibly deep life lesson he couldn't figure out what it
   was.

   The green study room was a surprisingly pleasant space with sunlight
   streaming in from windows of green-stained glass that showed dragons in
   calm, pastoral scenes. It had chairs that looked extremely comfortable,
   and tables that seemed very well-suited to studying in the company of
   one to three friends.

   Harry couldn't actually walk straight through and out the door on the
   other side. There were bookshelves set into the wall, and he had to go
   over and read some of the titles, so as to not lose his claim to the
   Verres family name. But he did it quickly, mindful of the complaint
   about being slow, and then went out the other side.

   He was walking down the "big curvy corridor" when he heard a young
   boy's voice cry out.

   At times like this, Harry had an excuse to sprint all-out with no
   regards for saving energy or doing proper warmup exercises or worrying
   about crashing into things, a sudden frantic flight that nearly came to
   an equally sudden halt as he almost ran over a group of six first-year
   Hufflepuffs...

   ...who were huddled together, looking rather scared and like they
   desperately wanted to do something but couldn't figure out what, which
   probably had something to do with the group of five older Slytherins
   who seemed to be surrounding another young boy.

   Harry was suddenly rather angry.

   "Excuse me!" shouted Harry at the top of his lungs.

   It might not have been necessary. People were already looking at him.
   But it certainly served to stop all the action cold.

   Harry walked past the cluster of Hufflepuffs towards the Slytherins.

   They looked down at him with expressions that ranged from anger to
   amusement to delight.

   Part of Harry's brain was screaming in panic that these were much older
   and bigger boys who could stomp him flat.

   Another part said dryly that anyone caught seriously stomping the
   Boy-Who-Lived was in for a whole world of trouble, especially if they
   were a pack of older Slytherins and there were seven Hufflepuffs who
   saw it, and that the chance of them doing him any permanent damage in
   the presence of witnesses was nearly zero. The only real weapon the
   older boys had against him was his own fear, if he allowed that.

   Then Harry saw that the boy they had trapped was Neville Longbottom.

   Of course.

   That settled it. Harry had decided to apologise humbly to Neville and
   that meant Neville was his, how dare they?

   Harry reached out and grabbed Neville by the wrist and yanked him out
   from between the Slytherins, the boy stumbling in shock as Harry pulled
   him out and in nearly the same motion pushed his own way through the
   same gap.

   And Harry stood in the center of the Slytherins where Neville had
   stood, looking up at the much older, larger, and stronger boys.

   "Hello," Harry said. "I'm the Boy-Who-Lived."

   There was a rather awkward pause. No one seemed to know where the
   conversation was supposed to go from there.

   Harry's eyes dropped downwards and saw some books and papers scattered
   around the floor. Oh, the old game where you let the boy try to pick up
   his books and then knock them out of his hand again. Harry couldn't
   remember ever being the object of that game himself, but he had a good
   imagination and his imagination was making him furious. Well, once the
   larger situation was resolved it would be easy enough for Neville to
   come back and pick up his materials, provided that the Slytherins
   stayed too intent on him to think of doing anything to the books.

   Unfortunately his straying eyes had been noted. "Ooh," said the largest
   of the boys, "did 'oo want the widdle books -"

   "Shut up," Harry said coldly. Keep them off balance. Don't do what they
   expect. Don't fall into a pattern that calls for them to bully you. "Is
   this part of some incredibly clever plan that will gain you future
   advantage, or is it as pointless a disgrace to the name of Salazar
   Slytherin as it -"

   The largest boy shoved Harry Potter hard, and he went sprawling out of
   the circle of Slytherins onto the hard stone floor of Hogwarts.

   And the Slytherins laughed.

   Harry rose up in what seemed to him like terribly slow motion. He
   didn't know yet how to use his wand, but there was no reason to let
   that stop him, under the circumstances.

   "I'd like to pay as many points as it takes to get rid of this person,"
   Harry said, pointing with his finger to the largest Slytherin.

   Then Harry lifted his other hand, said "Abracadabra," and snapped his
   fingers.

   At the word Abracadabra two of the Hufflepuffs screamed, including
   Neville, three other Slytherins leapt desperately out of the way of
   Harry's finger, and the largest Slytherin staggered back with an
   expression of shock, a sudden splash of red decorating his face and
   neck and chest.

   Harry had not been expecting that.

   Slowly, the largest Slytherin reached up to his head, and peeled off
   the pan of cherry pie that had just draped itself over him. The largest
   Slytherin held the pan in his hand for a moment, staring at it, then
   dropped it to the floor.

   It probably wasn't the best time in the world for one of the
   Hufflepuffs to start laughing, but that was exactly what one of the
   Hufflepuffs was doing.

   Then Harry caught sight of the note on the bottom of the pan.

   "Hold on," Harry said, and darted forward to pick up the note. "This
   note's for me, I think -"

   "You," growled the largest Slytherin, "you, are, going, to -"

   "Look at this!" shouted Harry, brandishing the note at the older
   Slytherin. "I mean, just look at this! Can you believe I'm being
   charged 30 points for shipping and handling on one lousy pie? 30
   points! I'm turning a loss on the deal even after rescuing an innocent
   boy in distress! And storage fees? Conveyance charges? Drayage costs?
   How do you get drayage costs on a pie?"

   There was another one of those awkward pauses. Harry thought deadly
   thoughts at whichever Hufflepuff couldn't seem to stop giggling, that
   idiot was going to get him hurt.

   Harry stepped back and shot the Slytherins his best lethal glare. "Now
   go away or I will just keep making your existence more and more surreal
   until you do. Let me warn you... messing with my life tends to make
   your life... a little hairy. Get it?"

   In a single terrible motion, the largest Slytherin whipped his wand out
   to point at Harry and in the same instant was hit on the other side of
   his head by another pie, this one bright blueberry.

   The note on this pie was rather large and clearly readable. "You might
   want to read the note on that pie," Harry observed. "I think it's for
   you this time."

   The Slytherin slowly reached up, took the pie pan, turned it over with
   a wet glop that dropped more blueberry on the floor, and read a note
   that said:

   WARNING
   NO MAGIC MAY BE USED ON THE CONTESTANT
   WHILE THE GAME IS IN PROGRESS
   FURTHER INTERFERENCE IN THE GAME
   WILL BE REPORTED TO THE GAME AUTHORITIES

   The expression of sheer bafflement on the Slytherin's face was a look
   of art. Harry thought that he might be starting to like this Game
   Controller.

   "Look," Harry said, "you want to call it a day? I think things are
   spiralling out of control here. How about you go back to Slytherin and
   I go back to Ravenclaw and we all just cool down a bit, okay?"

   "I've got a better idea," hissed the largest Slytherin. "How about if
   you accidentally break all your fingers?"

   "How in Merlin's name do you stage a believable accident after making
   the threat in front of a dozen witnesses, you idiot -"

   The largest Slytherin slowly, deliberately reached out towards Harry's
   hands, and Harry froze in place, the part of his brain that was
   noticing the other boy's age and strength finally managing to make
   itself heard, screaming, WHAT THE HECK AM I DOING?

   "Wait!" said one of the other Slytherins, his voice suddenly panicky.
   "Stop, you shouldn't actually do that!"

   The largest Slytherin ignored him, taking Harry's right hand firmly in
   his left hand, and taking Harry's index finger in his right hand.

   Harry stared the Slytherin straight in the eyes. Part of Harry was
   screaming, this wasn't supposed to happen, this wasn't allowed to
   happen, grownups would never let something like this actually happen -

   Slowly, the Slytherin started to bend his index finger backwards.

   He hasn't actually broken my finger and it is beneath me to so much as
   flinch until he does. Until then, this is just another attempt to cause
   fear.

   "Stop!" said the Slytherin who had objected before. "Stop, this is a
   very bad idea!"

   "I rather agree," said an icy voice. An older woman's voice.

   The largest Slytherin let go of Harry's hand and jumped backwards as if
   burned.

   "Professor Sprout!" cried one of the Hufflepuffs, sounding as glad as
   anyone Harry had ever heard in his life.

   Into Harry's field of vision, as he turned, stalked a dumpy little
   woman with messily curled grey hair and clothes covered with dirt. She
   pointed an accusing finger at the Slytherins. "Explain yourselves," she
   said. "What are you doing with my Hufflepuffs and..." she looked at
   him. "My fine student, Harry Potter."

   Uh oh. That's right, it was HER class I missed this morning.

   "He threatened to kill us!" blurted one of the other Slytherins, the
   same one who'd called for a halt.

   "What?" Harry said blankly. "I did not! If I was going to kill you I
   wouldn't make public threats first!"

   A third Slytherin laughed helplessly and then stopped abruptly as the
   other boys shot him deadly glares.

   Professor Sprout had adopted a rather sceptical expression. "What death
   threat would this be, exactly?"

   "The Killing Curse! He pretended to use the Killing Curse on us!"

   Professor Sprout turned to look at Harry. "Yes, quite a terrible threat
   from an eleven-year-old boy. Though still not something you should ever
   dream of pretending, Harry Potter."

   "I don't even know the words to the Killing Curse," Harry said
   promptly. "And I didn't have my wand out at any time."

   Now Professor Sprout was giving Harry a sceptical look. "I suppose this
   boy hit himself with two pies, then."

   "He didn't use his wand!" blurted one of the young Hufflepuffs. "I
   don't know how he did it either, he just snapped his fingers and there
   was pie!"

   "Really," said Professor Sprout after a pause. She drew her own wand.
   "I won't require it, since you do seem to be the victim here, but would
   you mind if I checked your wand to verify that?"

   Harry took out his wand. "What do I -"

   "Prior Incantato," said Sprout. She frowned. "That's odd, your wand
   doesn't seem to have been used at all."

   Harry shrugged. "It hasn't, actually, I only got my wand and
   schoolbooks a few days ago."

   Sprout nodded. "Then we have a clear case of accidental magic from a
   boy who felt threatened. And the rules plainly state that you are not
   to be held responsible. As for you..." she turned to the Slytherins.
   Her eyes dropped deliberately to Neville's books lying on the floor.

   There was a long silence during which she looked at the five
   Slytherins.

   "Three points from Slytherin, each," she said finally. "And six from
   him," pointing to the boy covered in pie. "Don't you ever meddle with
   my Hufflepuffs again, or my student Harry Potter either. Now go."

   She didn't have to repeat herself; the Slytherins turned and walked
   away very quickly.

   Neville went and started picking up his books. He seemed to be crying,
   but only a little. It might have been from delayed shock, or it might
   have been because the other boys were helping him.

   "Thank you very much, Harry Potter," Professor Sprout said to him.
   "Seven points to Ravenclaw, one for each Hufflepuff you helped protect.
   And I won't say anything more."

   Harry blinked. He'd been expecting something more along the lines of a
   lecture about keeping himself out of trouble, and a rather severe
   scolding for missing his very first class.

   Maybe he should have gone to Hufflepuff. Sprout was cool.

   "Scourgify," Sprout said to the mess of pie on the floor, which
   promptly vanished.

   And she left, walking along the hall that led to the green study room.

   "How did you do that?" hissed one of the Hufflepuff boys as soon as she
   was gone.

   Harry smiled smugly. "I can make anything I want happen just by
   snapping my fingers."

   The boy's eyes widened. "Really?"

   "No," said Harry. "But when you're telling everyone this story be sure
   to share it with Hermione Granger in first-year Ravenclaw, she has an
   anecdote you might find amusing." He had absolutely no clue what was
   happening, but he wasn't about to pass up the opportunity to add to his
   growing legend. "Oh, and what was all that about the Killing Curse?"

   The boy gave him a strange look. "You really don't know?"

   "If I did, I wouldn't be asking."

   "The words to the Killing Curse are," the boy swallowed, and his voice
   dropped to a whisper, and he held his hands away from his sides as if
   to make it very clear that he wasn't holding a wand, "Avada Kedavra."

   Well of course they are.

   Harry put this on his growing list of things to never ever tell his
   Dad, Professor Michael Verres-Evans. It was bad enough talking about
   how you were the only person to survive the fearsome Killing Curse,
   without having to admit that the Killing Curse was "Abracadabra."

   "I see," Harry said after a pause. "Well, that's the last time I ever
   say that before snapping my fingers." Though it had produced an effect
   that might be tactically useful.

   "Why did you -"

   "Raised by Muggles, Muggles think it's a joke and that it's funny.
   Seriously, that's what happened. Sorry, but can you remind me of your
   name?"

   "I'm Ernie Macmillan," said the Hufflepuff. He held out his hand, and
   Harry shook it. "Honoured to meet you."

   Harry executed a slight bow. "Pleased to meet you, skip the honoured
   thing."

   Then the other boys crowded round him and there was a sudden flood of
   introductions.

   When they were done, Harry swallowed. This was going to be very
   difficult. "Um... if everyone would excuse me... I have something to
   say to Neville -"

   All eyes turned to Neville, who took a step back, his face looking
   apprehensive.

   "I suppose," Neville said in a tiny voice, "you're going to say I
   should've been braver -"

   "Oh, no, nothing like that!" Harry said hastily. "Nothing to do with
   that. It's just, um, something the Sorting Hat told me -"

   Suddenly the other boys looked very interested, except for Neville, who
   was looking even more apprehensive.

   There seemed to be something blocking Harry's throat. He knew he should
   just blurt it out, and it was like he'd swallowed a large brick that
   was just stuck in the way.

   It was like Harry had to manually take control of his lips and produce
   each syllable individually, but he managed to make it happen. "I'm,
   sor, ry." He exhaled and took a deep breath. "For what I did, um, the
   other day. You... don't have to be gracious about it or anything, I'll
   understand if you just hate me. This isn't about me trying to look cool
   by apologising or your having to accept it. What I did was wrong."

   There was a pause.

   Neville clutched his books tighter to his chest. "Why did you do it?"
   he said in a thin, wavering voice. He blinked, as if trying to hold
   back tears. "Why does everyone do that to me, even the Boy-Who-Lived?"

   Harry suddenly felt smaller than he ever had in his life. "I'm sorry,"
   Harry said again, his voice now hoarsened. "It's just... you looked so
   scared, it was like a sign over your head saying 'victim', and I wanted
   to show you that things don't always turn out badly, that sometimes the
   monsters give you chocolate... I thought if I showed you that, you
   might realise there wasn't so much to be afraid of -"

   "But there is," whispered Neville. "You saw it today, there is!"

   "They wouldn't have done anything really bad in front of witnesses.
   Their main weapon is fear. That's why they target you, because they can
   see you're afraid. I wanted to make you less afraid... show you that
   the fear was worse than the thing itself... or that was what I told
   myself, but the Sorting Hat told me that I was lying to myself and that
   I really did it because it was fun. So that's why I'm apologising -"

   "You hurt me," said Neville. "Just now. When you grabbed me and pulled
   me away from them." Neville held out his arm and pointed to where Harry
   had grabbed him. "I might have a bruise here later from how hard you
   pulled. You hurt me worse than anything the Slytherins did by bumping
   into me, actually."

   "Neville!" hissed Ernie. "He was trying to save you!"

   "I'm sorry," whispered Harry. "When I saw that I just got... really
   angry..."

   Neville looked at him steadily. "So you yanked me out really hard and
   put yourself in where I was and went, 'Hello, I'm the Boy-Who-Lived'."

   Harry nodded.

   "I think you're going to be really cool someday," Neville said. "But
   right now, you're not."

   Harry swallowed the sudden knot in his throat and walked away. He
   continued down the corridor to the intersection, then turned left into
   a hallway and kept on walking, blindly.

   What was he supposed to do here? Never get angry? He wasn't sure he
   could have done anything without being angry and who knows what would
   have happened to Neville and his books then. Besides, Harry had read
   enough fantasy books to know how this one went. He would try to
   suppress the anger and he would fail and it would keep coming out
   again. And after this whole long journey of self-discovery he would
   learn at the end that his anger was a part of himself and that only by
   accepting it could he learn to use it wisely. Star Wars was the only
   universe in which the answer actually was that you were supposed to cut
   yourself off completely from negative emotions, and something about
   Yoda had always made Harry hate the little green moron.

   So the obvious time-saving plan was to skip the journey of
   self-discovery and go straight to the part where he realised that only
   by accepting his anger as a part of himself could he stay in control of
   it.

   The problem was that he didn't feel out of control when he was angry.
   The cold rage made him feel like he was in control. It was only when he
   looked back that events as a whole seemed to have... blown up out of
   control, somehow.

   He wondered how much the Game Controller cared about that sort of
   thing, and whether he'd won or lost points for it. Harry himself felt
   like he'd lost quite a few points, and he was sure the old lady in the
   picture would have told him that his was the only opinion that
   mattered.

   And Harry was also wondering whether the Game Controller had sent
   Professor Sprout. It was the logical thought: the note had threatened
   to notify the Game Authorities, and then there Professor Sprout was.
   Maybe Professor Sprout was the Game Controller - the Head of House
   Hufflepuff would be the last person anyone would suspect, which ought
   to put her near the top of Harry's list. He'd read one or two mystery
   novels, too.

   "So how am I doing in the game?" Harry said out loud.

   A sheet of paper flew over his head, as if someone had thrown it from
   behind him - Harry turned around, but there was no one there - and when
   Harry turned forwards again, the note was settling to the floor.

   The note said:

   POINTS FOR STYLE: 10
   POINTS FOR GOOD THINKING: -3,000,000
   RAVENCLAW HOUSE POINTS BONUS: 70
   CURRENT POINTS: -2,999,871
   TURNS REMAINING: 2

   "Minus three million points?" Harry said indignantly to the empty
   hallway. "That seems excessive! I want to file an appeal with the Game
   Authorities! And how am I supposed to make up three million points in
   the next two turns?"

   Another note flew over his head.

   APPEAL: FAILED
   ASKING THE WRONG QUESTIONS: -1,000,000,000,000 POINTS
   CURRENT POINTS: -1,000,002,999,871
   TURNS REMAINING: 1

   Harry gave up. With one turn remaining all he could do was take his
   best shot, even if it wasn't very good. "My guess is that the game
   represents life."

   A final sheet of paper flew over his head, reading:

   ATTEMPT FAILED
   FAILED FAILED FAILED
   AIIIIIIIIIIEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
   CURRENT POINTS: MINUS INFINITY
   YOU HAVE LOST THE GAME

   FINAL INSTRUCTION:
   go to Professor McGonagall's office

   The last line was in his own handwriting.

   Harry stared at the last line for a while, then shrugged. Fine.
   Professor McGonagall's office it would be. If she was the Game
   Controller...

   Okay, honestly, Harry had absolutely no idea how he would feel if
   Professor McGonagall was the Game Controller. His mind was just drawing
   a complete blank. It was, literally, unimaginable.

   A couple of portraits later - it wasn't a long trip, Professor
   McGonagall's office wasn't far from her Transfiguration classroom, at
   least not on Mondays on odd-numbered years - Harry stood outside the
   door to her office.

   He knocked.

   "Come in," said Professor McGonagall's muffled voice.

   He entered.
   Chapter 14: The Unknown and the Unknowable

   Melenkurion abatha! Duroc minas mill J. K. Rowling!
     __________________________________________________________________

   There were mysterious questions, but a mysterious answer was a
   contradiction in terms.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Come in," said Professor McGonagall's muffled voice.

   Harry did so.

   The office of the Deputy Headmistress was clean and well-organised; on
   the wall immediately adjacent to the desk was a maze of wooden
   cubbyholes of all shapes and sizes, most with several parchment scrolls
   thrust into them, and it was somehow very clear that Professor
   McGonagall knew exactly what every cubbyhole meant, even if no one else
   did. A single parchment lay on the actual desk, which was, aside from
   that, clean. Behind the desk was a closed door barred with several
   locks.

   Professor McGonagall was sitting on a backless stool behind the desk,
   looking puzzled - her eyes had widened, with perhaps a slight note of
   apprehension, as she saw Harry.

   "Mr. Potter?" said Professor McGonagall. "What is this about?"

   Harry's mind went blank. He'd been instructed by the game to come here,
   he had been expecting her to have something in mind...

   "Mr. Potter?" said Professor McGonagall, starting to look slightly
   annoyed.

   Thankfully, Harry's panicking brain remembered at this point that he
   did have something he'd been planning to discuss with Professor
   McGonagall. Something important and well worth her time.

   "Um..." Harry said. "If there are any spells you can cast to make sure
   no one's listening to us..."

   Professor McGonagall stood up from her chair, firmly closed the outer
   door, and began taking out her wand and saying spells.

   It was at this point that Harry realised he was faced with a priceless
   and possibly irreplaceable opportunity to offer Professor McGonagall a
   Comed-Tea and he couldn't believe he was seriously thinking that and it
   would be fine the soda would vanish after a few seconds and he told
   that part of himself to shut up.

   It did, and Harry began to organise mentally what he was going to say.
   He hadn't planned to have this discussion quite so soon, but so long as
   he was here...

   Professor McGonagall finished a spell that sounded a lot older than
   Latin, and then she sat down again.

   "All right," she said in a quiet voice. "No one's listening." Her face
   was rather tight.

   Oh, right, she's expecting me to blackmail her for information about
   the prophecy.

   Eh, Harry'd get around to that some other day.

   "It's about the Incident with the Sorting Hat," Harry said. (Professor
   McGonagall blinked.) "Um... I think there's an extra spell on the
   Sorting Hat, something that the Sorting Hat itself doesn't know about,
   something that triggers when the Sorting Hat says Slytherin. I heard a
   message that I'm pretty sure Ravenclaws aren't supposed to hear. It
   came the moment the Sorting Hat was off my head and I felt the
   connection break. It sounded like a hiss and like English at the same
   time," there was a sharp intake of breath from McGonagall, "and it
   said: Salutations from Slytherin to Slytherin, if you would seek my
   secrets, speak to my snake."

   Professor McGonagall sat there with her mouth open, staring at Harry as
   if he'd grown another two heads.

   "So..." Professor McGonagall said slowly, as though she couldn't
   believe the words that were coming out of her own lips, "you decided to
   come to me right away and tell me about it."

   "Well, yes, of course," Harry said. There was no need to admit how long
   it had taken him to actually think of that. "As opposed to, say, trying
   to research it myself, or telling any of the other children."

   "I... see," Professor McGonagall said. "And if, perhaps, you were to
   discover the entrance to Salazar Slytherin's legendary Chamber of
   Secrets, an entrance that you and you alone could open..."

   "I would close the entrance and report to you at once so that a team of
   experienced magical archaeologists could be assembled," Harry said
   promptly. "Then I would open up the entrance again and they would go in
   very carefully to make sure that there was nothing dangerous. I might
   go in later to look around, or if they needed me to open up something
   else, but it would be after the area had been declared clear and they
   had photographs of how everything looked before people started tromping
   around their priceless historical site."

   Professor McGonagall sat there with her mouth open, staring at him like
   he'd just turned into a cat.

   "It's obvious if you're not a Gryffindor," Harry said kindly.

   "I think," Professor McGonagall said in a rather choked voice, "that
   you far underestimate the rarity of common sense, Mr. Potter."

   That sounded about right. Although... "A Hufflepuff would've said the
   same thing."

   McGonagall paused, struck. "That's true."

   "Sorting Hat offered me Hufflepuff."

   She blinked at him as though she couldn't believe her own ears. "Did it
   really?"

   "Yes."

   "Mr. Potter," McGonagall said, and now her voice was low, "five decades
   ago was the last time a student died within the walls of Hogwarts, and
   I am now certain that five decades ago was the last time someone heard
   that message."

   A chill went through Harry. "Then I will be very sure to take no action
   whatsoever on this matter without consulting you, Professor
   McGonagall." He paused. "And may I suggest that you get together the
   best people you can find and see if it's possible to get that extra
   spell off the Sorting Hat... and if you can't do that, maybe put on
   another spell, a Quietus that briefly activates just as the Hat is
   being removed from a student's head, that might work as a patch. There,
   no more dead students." Harry nodded in satisfaction.

   Professor McGonagall looked even more stunned, if such a thing were
   imaginable. "I cannot possibly award you enough points for this without
   giving the House Cup to Ravenclaw outright."

   "Um," Harry said. "Um. I'd rather not earn that many House points."

   Now Professor McGonagall was giving him a strange look. "Why not?"

   Harry was having a little difficulty putting it into words. "Because it
   would be just too sad, you know? Like... like back when I was still
   trying to go to school in the Muggle world, and whenever there was a
   group project, I'd go ahead and do the whole thing myself because the
   others would only slow me down. I'm fine with earning lots of points,
   more than anyone else even, but if I earn enough to be decisive in
   winning the House Cup just by myself, then it's like I'm carrying House
   Ravenclaw on my back and that's too sad."

   "I see..." McGonagall said hesitantly. It was apparent that this way of
   thinking had never occurred to her. "Suppose I only awarded you fifty
   points, then?"

   Harry shook his head again. "It's not fair to the other children if I
   earn lots of points for grownup things that I can be part of and they
   can't. How is Terry Boot supposed to earn fifty points for reporting a
   whisper he heard from the Sorting Hat? It wouldn't be fair at all."

   "I see why the Sorting Hat offered you Hufflepuff," said Professor
   McGonagall. She was eyeing him with a strange respect.

   That made Harry choke up a bit. He'd honestly thought he wasn't worthy
   of Hufflepuff. That the Sorting Hat had just been trying to shove him
   anywhere but Ravenclaw, into a House whose virtues he didn't have...

   Professor McGonagall was smiling now. "And if I tried to give you ten
   points...?"

   "Are you going to explain where those ten points came from, if anyone
   asks? There might be a lot of Slytherins, and I don't mean the children
   at Hogwarts, who would be really really angry if they knew about the
   spell being taken off the Sorting Hat and found out I was involved. So
   I think that absolute secrecy is the better part of valour. No need to
   thank me, ma'am, virtue is its own reward."

   "So it is," Professor McGonagall said, "but I do have a very special
   something else to give you. I see that I have greatly wronged you in my
   thoughts, Mr. Potter. Please wait here."

   She got up, went over to the locked back door, waved her wand, and a
   sort of blurry curtain sprang up around her. Harry could neither see
   nor hear what was going on. It was a few minutes later that the blur
   vanished and Professor McGonagall was standing there, facing him, with
   the door behind her looking as though it hadn't ever been opened.

   And Professor McGonagall held out in one hand a necklace, a thin golden
   chain bearing in its center a silver circle, within which was the
   device of an hourglass. In her other hand was a folded pamphlet. "This
   is for you," she said.

   Wow! He was going to get some sort of neat magical item as a quest
   reward! Apparently that business with refusing offers of monetary
   rewards until you got a magic item actually worked in real life, not
   just computer games.

   Harry accepted his new necklace, smiling. "What is it?"

   Professor McGonagall took a breath. "Mr. Potter, this is an item which
   is ordinarily lent only to children who have already shown themselves
   to be highly responsible, in order to help them with difficult class
   schedules." McGonagall hesitated, as though about to add something
   else. "I must emphasise, Mr. Potter, that this item's true nature is
   secret and that you must not tell any of the other students about it,
   or let them see you using it. If that's not acceptable to you, then you
   can give it back now."

   "I can keep secrets," Harry said. "So what does it do?"

   "So far as the other students are concerned, this is a Spimster wicket
   and it is used to treat a rare, non-contagious magical ailment called
   Spontaneous Duplication. You wear it under your clothes, and while you
   have no reason to show it to anyone, you also have no reason to treat
   it as an awful secret. Spimster wickets are not interesting. Do you
   understand, Mr. Potter?"

   Harry nodded, his smile widening. He sensed the work of a competent
   Slytherin. "And what does it really do?"

   "It's a Time-Turner. Each spin of the hourglass sends you one hour back
   in time. So if you use it to go back two hours every day, you should
   always be able to get to sleep at the same time."

   Harry's suspension of disbelief blew completely out the window.

   You're giving me a time machine to treat my sleep disorder.

   You're giving me a TIME MACHINE to treat my SLEEP DISORDER.

   YOU'RE GIVING ME A TIME MACHINE IN ORDER TO TREAT MY SLEEP DISORDER.

   "Ehehehehhheheh..." Harry's mouth said. He was now holding the necklace
   away from him as though it were a live bomb. Well, no, not as if it
   were a live bomb, that didn't begin to describe the severity of the
   situation. Harry held the necklace away from him as though it were a
   time machine.

   Say, Professor McGonagall, did you know that time-reversed ordinary
   matter looks just like antimatter? Why yes it does! Did you know that
   one kilogram of antimatter encountering one kilogram of matter will
   annihilate in an explosion equivalent to 43 million tons of TNT? Do you
   realise that I myself weigh 41 kilograms and that the resulting blast
   would leave A GIANT SMOKING CRATER WHERE THERE USED TO BE SCOTLAND?

   "Excuse me," Harry managed to say, "but this sounds really really
   really REALLY DANGEROUS!" Harry's voice didn't quite rise to a shriek,
   he couldn't possibly scream loud enough to do this situation justice so
   there was no point in trying.

   Professor McGonagall looked upon him with tolerant affection. "I'm glad
   you're taking this seriously, Mr. Potter, but Time-Turners aren't that
   dangerous. We wouldn't give them to children if they were."

   "Really," Harry said. "Ahahahaha. Of course you wouldn't give time
   machines to children if they were dangerous, what was I thinking? So
   just to be clear, sneezing on this device will not send me into the
   Middle Ages where I will run over Gutenberg with a horse cart and
   prevent the Enlightenment? Because, you know, I hate it when that
   happens to me."

   McGonagall's lips were twitching in that way she had when she was
   trying not to smile. She offered Harry the pamphlet she was holding,
   but Harry was carefully holding out the necklace with both hands and
   staring at the hourglass to make sure it wasn't about to turn. "Don't
   worry," McGonagall said after a momentary pause, when it became clear
   that Harry wasn't going to move, "that can't possibly happen, Mr.
   Potter. The Time-Turner cannot be used to move more than six hours
   backwards. It can't be used more than six times in any day."

   "Oh, good, very good, that. And if someone bumps into me the
   Time-Turner will not break and will not trap the whole castle of
   Hogwarts in an endlessly repeating loop of Thursdays."

   "Well, they can be fragile..." said McGonagall. "And I do think I've
   heard about strange things happening if they're broken. But nothing
   like that!"

   "Perhaps," Harry said when he could speak again, "you ought to provide
   your time machines with some sort of protective shell, rather than
   leaving the glass exposed, so as to prevent that from happening."

   McGonagall looked quite struck. "That's an excellent idea, Mr. Potter.
   I shall inform the Ministry of it."

   That's it, it's official now, they've ratified it in Parliament,
   everyone in the wizarding world is completely stupid.

   "And while I hate to get all PHILOSOPHICAL," Harry desperately tried to
   lower his voice to something under a shriek, "has anyone thought about
   the IMPLICATIONS of going back six hours and doing something that
   changes time which would pretty much DELETE ALL THE PEOPLE AFFECTED and
   REPLACE THEM WITH DIFFERENT VERSIONS -"

   "Oh, you can't change time!" Professor McGonagall interrupted. "Good
   heavens, Mr. Potter, do you think these would be allowed students if
   that was possible? What if someone tried to change their test scores?"

   Harry took a moment to process this. His hands relaxed, just a little,
   from their white grip on the hourglass chain. Like he wasn't holding a
   time machine, just a live nuclear warhead.

   "So..." Harry said slowly. "People just find that the universe...
   happens to be self-consistent, somehow, even though it has time-travel
   in it. If I and my future self interact then I'll see the same thing as
   both of me, even though, on my own first run through, my future self is
   already acting in full knowledge of things that, from my own
   perspective, haven't happened yet..." Harry's voice trailed off into
   the inadequacy of English.

   "Correct, I think," said Professor McGonagall. "Although wizards are
   advised to avoid being seen by their past selves. If you're attending
   two classes at the same time and you need to cross paths with yourself,
   for example, the first version of you should step aside and close his
   eyes at a known time - you have a watch already, good - so that the
   future you can pass. It's all there in the pamphlet."

   "Ahahahaa. And what happens when someone ignores that advice?"

   Professor McGonagall pursed her lips. "I understand that it can be
   quite disconcerting."

   "And it doesn't, say, create a paradox that destroys the universe."

   She smiled tolerantly. "Mr. Potter, I think I'd remember hearing if
   that had ever happened."

   "THAT IS NOT REASSURING! HAVEN'T YOU PEOPLE EVER HEARD OF THE ANTHROPIC
   PRINCIPLE? AND WHAT IDIOT EVER BUILT ONE OF THESE THINGS FOR THE FIRST
   TIME?"

   Professor McGonagall actually laughed. It was a pleasant, glad sound
   that seemed surprisingly out of place on that stern face. "You're
   having another 'you turned into a cat' moment, aren't you, Mr. Potter.
   You probably don't want to hear this, but it's quite endearingly cute."

   "Turning into a cat doesn't even BEGIN to compare to this. You know
   right up until this moment I had this awful suppressed thought
   somewhere in the back of my mind that the only remaining answer was
   that my whole universe was a computer simulation like in the book
   Simulacron 3 but now even that is ruled out because this little toy
   ISN'T TURING COMPUTABLE! A Turing machine could simulate going back
   into a defined moment of the past and computing a different future from
   there, an oracle machine could rely on the halting behavior of
   lower-order machines, but what you're saying is that reality somehow
   self-consistently computes in one sweep using information that
   hasn't... happened... yet..."

   Realisation struck Harry a pile-driver blow.

   It all made sense now. It all finally made sense.

   "SO THAT'S HOW THE COMED-TEA WORKS! Of course! The spell doesn't force
   funny events to happen, it just makes you feel an impulse to drink
   right before funny things are going to happen anyway! I'm such a fool,
   I should have realised when I felt the impulse to drink the Comed-Tea
   before Dumbledore's second speech, didn't drink it, and then choked on
   my own saliva instead - drinking the Comed-Tea doesn't cause the
   comedy, the comedy causes you to drink the Comed-Tea! I saw the two
   events were correlated and assumed the Comed-Tea had to be the cause
   and the comedy had to be the effect because I thought temporal order
   restrained causation and causal graphs had to be acyclic BUT IT ALL
   MAKES SENSE ONCE YOU DRAW THE CAUSAL ARROWS GOING BACKWARDS IN TIME!"

   Realisation struck Harry the second pile-driver.

   This one he managed to keep quiet, making only a small strangling sound
   like a dying kitten as he realised who'd put the note on his bed this
   morning.

   Professor McGonagall's eyes were alight. "After you graduate, or
   possibly even before, you really must teach some of these Muggle
   theories at Hogwarts, Mr. Potter. They sound quite fascinating, even if
   they're all wrong."

   "Glehhahhh..."

   Professor McGonagall offered him a few more pleasantries, demanded a
   few more promises to which Harry nodded, said something about not
   talking to snakes where anyone could hear him, reminded him to read the
   pamphlet, and then somehow Harry found himself standing outside her
   office with the door closed firmly behind him.

   "Gaahhhrrrraa..." Harry said.

   Why yes his mind was blown.

   Not least by the fact that, if not for the Prank, he might well have
   never obtained a Time-Turner in the first place.

   Or would Professor McGonagall have given it to him anyway, only later
   in the day, whenever he got around to asking about his sleep disorder
   or telling her about the Sorting Hat's message? And would he, at that
   time, have wanted to pull a prank on himself which would have led to
   him getting the Time-Turner earlier? So that the only self-consistent
   possibility was the one in which the Prank started before he even woke
   up in the morning...?

   Harry found himself considering, for the first time in his life, that
   the answer to his question might be literally inconceivable. That since
   his own brain contained neurons that only ran forwards in time, there
   was nothing his brain could do, no operation it could perform, which
   was conjugate to the operation of a Time Turner.

   Up until this point Harry had lived by the admonition of E. T. Jaynes
   that if you were ignorant about a phenomenon, that was a fact about
   your own state of mind, not a fact about the phenomenon itself; that
   your uncertainty was a fact about you, not a fact about whatever you
   were uncertain about; that ignorance existed in the mind, not in
   reality; that a blank map did not correspond to a blank territory.
   There were mysterious questions, but a mysterious answer was a
   contradiction in terms. A phenomenon could be mysterious to some
   particular person, but there could be no phenomena mysterious of
   themselves. To worship a sacred mystery was just to worship your own
   ignorance.

   So Harry had looked upon magic and refused to be intimidated. People
   had no sense of history, they learned about chemistry and biology and
   astronomy and thought that these matters had always been the proper
   meat of science, that they had never been mysterious. The stars had
   once been mysteries. Lord Kelvin had once called the nature of life and
   biology - the response of muscles to human will and the generation of
   trees from seeds - a mystery "infinitely beyond" the reach of science.
   (Not just a little beyond, mind you, but infinitely beyond. Lord Kelvin
   certainly had felt a huge emotional charge from not knowing something.)
   Every mystery ever solved had been a puzzle from the dawn of the human
   species right up until someone solved it.

   Now, for the first time, he was up against the prospect of a mystery
   that was threatening to be permanent. If Time didn't work by acyclic
   causal networks then Harry didn't understand what was meant by cause
   and effect; and if Harry didn't understand causes and effects then he
   didn't understand what sort of stuff reality might be made of instead;
   and it was entirely possible that his human mind never could
   understand, because his brain was made of old-fashioned linear-time
   neurons, and this had turned out to be an impoverished subset of
   reality.

   On the plus side, the Comed-Tea, which had once seemed all-powerful and
   all-unbelievable, had turned out to have a much simpler explanation.
   Which he'd missed merely because the truth was completely outside his
   hypothesis space or anything that his brain had evolved to comprehend.
   But now he actually had figured it, probably. Which was sort of
   encouraging. Sort of.

   Harry glanced down at his watch. It was nearly 11AM, he'd gotten to
   sleep last night at 1AM, so in the natural state of affairs he'd go to
   sleep tonight at 3AM. So to go to sleep at 10PM and wake up at 7AM, he
   should go back five hours total. Which meant that if he wanted to get
   back to his dorm at around 6AM, before anyone was awake, he'd better
   hurry up and...

   Even in retrospect Harry didn't understand how he'd pulled off half the
   stuff involved in the Prank. Where had the pie come from?

   Harry was starting to seriously fear time travel.

   On the other hand, he had to admit that it had been an irreplaceable
   opportunity. A prank you could only pull on yourself once in a
   lifetime, within six hours of when you first found out about
   Time-Turners.

   In fact that was even more puzzling, when Harry thought about it. Time
   had presented him with the finished Prank as a fait accompli, and yet
   it was, quite clearly, his own handiwork. Concept and execution and
   writing style. Every last part, even the ones he still didn't
   understand.

   Well, time was a-wasting and there were at most thirty hours in a day.
   Harry did know some of what he had to do, and he might figure out the
   rest, like the pie, while he was working. There was no point putting it
   off. He couldn't exactly accomplish anything stuck here in the future.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Five hours earlier, Harry was sneaking into his dorm with his robes
   pulled up over his head as a thin sort of disguise, just in case
   someone was already up and about and saw him at the same time as Harry
   lying in his bed. He didn't want to have to explain to anyone about his
   little medical problem with Spontaneous Duplication.

   Fortunately it seemed that everyone was still asleep.

   And there also seemed to be a box, wrapped in red and green paper with
   a bright golden ribbon, lying next to his bed. The perfect,
   stereotypical image of a Christmas present, although it wasn't
   Christmas.

   Harry crept in as softly as he could manage, just in case someone had
   their Quieter turned down low.

   There was an envelope attached to the box, closed by plain clear wax
   without a seal impressed.

   Harry carefully pried the envelope open, and took out the letter
   inside.

   The letter said:

   This is the Cloak of Invisibility of Ignotus Peverell, passed down
   through his descendants the Potters. Unlike lesser cloaks and spells it
   has the power to keep you hidden, not merely invisible. Your father
   lent it to me to study shortly before he died, and I confess that I
   have received much good use of it over the years.

   In the future I shall have to get along with Disillusionment, I fear.
   It is time the Cloak was returned to you, its heir. I had thought to
   make this a Christmas present, but it wished to come back to your hand
   before then. It seems to expect you to have need of it. Use it well.

   No doubt you are already thinking of all manner of wonderful pranks, as
   your father committed in his day. If his full misdeeds were known,
   every woman in Gryffindor would gather to desecrate his grave. I shall
   not try to stop history from repeating, but be MOST careful not to
   reveal yourself. If Dumbledore saw a chance to possess one of the
   Deathly Hallows, he would never let it escape his grasp until the day
   he died.

   A Very Merry Christmas to you.

   The note was unsigned.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Hold on," Harry said, pulling up short as the other boys were about to
   leave the Ravenclaw dorm. "Sorry, there's something else I've got to do
   with my trunk. I'll be along to breakfast in a couple of minutes."

   Terry Boot scowled at Harry. "You'd better not be planning to go
   through any of our things."

   Harry held up one hand. "I swear that I intend to do nothing of the
   sort to any of your things, that I only intend to access objects that I
   myself own, that I have no pranking or otherwise questionable
   intentions towards any of you, and that I do not anticipate those
   intentions changing before I get to breakfast in the Great Hall."

   Terry frowned. "Wait, is that -"

   "Don't worry," said Penelope Clearwater, who was there to guide them.
   "There were no loopholes. Well-worded, Potter, you should be a lawyer."

   Harry Potter blinked at that. Ah, yes, Ravenclaw prefect. "Thank you,"
   he said. "I think."

   "When you try to find the Great Hall, you will get lost." Penelope
   stated this in the tones of a flat, unarguable fact. "As soon as you
   do, ask a portrait how to get to the first floor. Ask another portrait
   the instant you suspect you might be lost again. Especially if it seems
   like you're going up higher and higher. If you are higher than the
   whole castle ought to be, stop and wait for search parties. Otherwise
   we shall see you again four months later and you will be five months
   older and dressed in a loincloth and covered in snow and that's if you
   stay inside the castle."

   "Understood," said Harry, swallowing hard. "Um, shouldn't you tell
   students all that sort of stuff right away?"

   Penelope sighed. "What, all of it? That would take weeks. You'll pick
   it up as you go along." She turned to go, followed by the other
   students. "If I don't see you at breakfast in thirty minutes, Potter,
   I'll start the search."

   Once everyone was gone, Harry attached the note to his bed - he'd
   already written it and all the other notes, working in his cavern level
   before everyone else woke up. Then he carefully reached inside the
   Quietus field and pulled the Cloak of Invisibility off Harry-1's
   still-sleeping form.

   And just for the sake of mischief, Harry put the Cloak into Harry-1's
   pouch, knowing it would thereby already be in his own.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "I can see that the message is passed on to Cornelion Flubberwalt,"
   said the painting of a man with aristocratic airs and, in fact, a
   perfectly normal nose. "But might I ask where it came from originally?"

   Harry shrugged with artful helplessness. "I was told that it was spoken
   by a hollow voice that belled forth from a gap within the air itself, a
   gap that opened upon a fiery abyss."
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Hey!" Hermione said in tones of indignation from her place on the
   other side of the breakfast table. "That's everyone's dessert! You
   can't just take one whole pie and put it in your pouch!"

   "I'm not taking one pie, I'm taking two. Sorry everyone, gotta run
   now!" Harry ignored the cries of outrage and left the Great Hall. He
   needed to arrive at Herbology class a little early.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Professor Sprout eyed him sharply. "And how do you know what the
   Slytherins are planning?"

   "I can't name my source," Harry said. "In fact I have to ask you to
   pretend that this conversation never happened. Just act like you
   happened across them naturally while you were on an errand, or
   something. I'll run on ahead as soon as Herbology gets out. I think I
   can distract the Slytherins until you get there. I'm not easy to scare
   or bully, and I don't think they'll dare to seriously hurt the
   Boy-Who-Lived. Though... I'm not asking you to run in the hallways, but
   I would appreciate it if you didn't dawdle along the way."

   Professor Sprout looked at him for a long moment, then her expression
   softened. "Please be careful with yourself, Harry Potter. And... thank
   you."

   "Just be sure not to be late," Harry said. "And remember, when you get
   there, you weren't expecting to see me and this conversation never
   happened."
     __________________________________________________________________

   It was horrible, watching himself yank Neville out of the circle of
   Slytherins. Neville had been right, he'd used too much force, way too
   much force.

   "Hello," Harry Potter said coldly. "I'm the Boy-Who-Lived."

   Eight first-year boys, mostly the same height. One of them had a scar
   on his forehead and he wasn't acting like the others.

   Oh wad some power the giftie gie us
   To see oursel's as others see us!
   It wad frae monie a blunder free us,
   And foolish notion -

   Professor McGonagall was right. The Sorting Hat was right. It was clear
   once you saw it from the outside.

   There was something wrong with Harry Potter.
   Chapter 15: Conscientiousness

   Love as thou Rowling.

   Today's historical tidbit: The ancient Hebrews considered the boundary
   of a day to be sunset rather than dawn, so they said "evening and
   morning" not "morning and evening". (And as many reviewers noted,
   modern Jewish halacha asserts the same.)
     __________________________________________________________________

   "I'm sure I'll find the time somewhere."
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Frigideiro!"

   Harry dipped a finger in the glass of water on his desk. It should have
   been cool. But lukewarm it was, and lukewarm it had stayed. Again.

   Harry was feeling very, very cheated.

   There were hundreds of fantasy novels scattered around the Verres
   household. Harry had read quite a few. And it was starting to look like
   he had a mysterious dark side. So after the glass of water had refused
   to cooperate the first few times, Harry had glanced around the Charms
   classroom to make sure no one was watching, and then taken a deep
   breath, concentrated, and made himself angry. Thought about the
   Slytherins bullying Neville, and the game where someone knocked down
   your books every time you tried to pick them up again. Thought about
   what Draco Malfoy had said about the ten-year-old Lovegood girl and how
   the Wizengamot really operated...

   And the fury had entered his blood, he had held out his wand in a hand
   that trembled with hate and said in cold tones "Frigideiro!" and
   absolutely nothing had happened.

   Harry had been gypped. He wanted to write someone and demand a refund
   on his dark side which clearly ought to have irresistible magical power
   but had turned out to be defective.

   "Frigideiro!" said Hermione again from the desk next to him. Her water
   was solid ice and there were white crystals forming on the rim of her
   glass. She seemed to be totally intent on her own work and not at all
   conscious of the other students staring at her with hateful eyes, which
   was either (a) dangerously oblivious of her or (b) a perfectly honed
   performance rising to the level of fine art.

   "Oh, very good, Miss Granger!" squeaked Filius Flitwick, their Charms
   Professor and Head of Ravenclaw, a tiny little man with no visible
   signs of being a past dueling champion. "Excellent! Stupendous!"

   Harry had expected to be, in the worst case, second behind Hermione.
   Harry would have preferred for her to be rivalling him, of course, but
   he could have accepted it the other way around.

   As of Monday, Harry was headed for the bottom of the class, a position
   for which he was companionably rivalling all the other Muggle-raised
   students except Hermione. Who was all alone and rivalless at the top,
   poor thing.

   Professor Flitwick was standing over the desk of one of the other
   Muggleborns and quietly adjusting the way she was holding her wand.

   Harry looked over at Hermione. He swallowed hard. It was the obvious
   role for her in the scheme of things... "Hermione?" Harry said
   tentatively. "Do you have any idea what I might be doing wrong?"

   Hermione's eyes lit up with a terrible light of helpfulness and
   something in the back of Harry's brain screamed in desperate
   humiliation.

   Five minutes later, Harry's water did seem noticeably cooler than room
   temperature and Hermione had given him a few verbal pats on the head
   and told him to pronounce it more carefully next time and gone off to
   help someone else.

   Professor Flitwick had given her a House point for helping him.

   Harry was gritting his teeth so hard his jaw ached and that wasn't
   helping his pronunciation.

   I don't care if it's unfair competition. I know exactly what I am doing
   with two extra hours every day. I am going to sit in my trunk and study
   until I am keeping up with Hermione Granger.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Transfiguration is some of the most complex and dangerous magic you
   will learn at Hogwarts," said Professor McGonagall. There was no trace
   of any levity upon the face of the stern old witch. "Anyone messing
   around in my class will leave and not come back. You have been warned."

   Her wand came down and tapped her desk, which smoothly reshaped itself
   into a pig. A couple of Muggleborn students gave out small yelps. The
   pig looked around and snorted, seeming confused, and then became a desk
   again.

   The Transfiguration Professor looked around the classroom, and then her
   eyes settled on one student.

   "Mr. Potter," said Professor McGonagall. "You only received your
   schoolbooks a few days ago. Have you started reading your
   Transfiguration textbook?"

   "No, sorry professor," Harry said.

   "You needn't apologise, Mr. Potter, if you were required to read ahead
   you would have been told to do so." McGonagall's fingers rapped the
   desk in front of her. "Mr. Potter, would you care to guess whether this
   is a desk which I Transfigured into a pig, or if it began as a pig and
   I briefly removed the Transfiguration? If you had read the first
   chapter of your textbook, you would know."

   Harry's eyebrows furrowed slightly. "I'd guess it'd be easier to start
   with a pig, since if it started as a desk, it might not know how to
   stand up."

   Professor McGonagall shook her head. "No fault to you, Mr. Potter, but
   the correct answer is that in Transfiguration you do not care to guess.
   Wrong answers will be marked with extreme severity, questions left
   blank will be marked with great leniency. You must learn to know what
   you do not know. If I ask you any question, no matter how obvious or
   elementary, and you answer 'I'm not sure', I will not hold it against
   you and anyone who laughs will lose House points. Can you tell me why
   this rule exists, Mr. Potter?"

   Because a single error in Transfiguration can be incredibly dangerous.
   "No."

   "Correct. Transfiguration is more dangerous than Apparition, which is
   not taught until your sixth year. Unfortunately, Transfiguration must
   be learned and practised at a young age to maximise your adult ability.
   So this is a dangerous subject, and you should be quite scared of
   making any mistakes, because none of my students have ever been
   permanently injured and I will be extremely put out if you are the
   first class to spoil my record."

   Several students gulped.

   Professor McGonagall stood up and moved over to the wall behind her
   desk, which held a white wooden board. "There are many reasons why
   Transfiguration is dangerous, but one reason stands above all the
   rest." She produced a marker seemingly from thin air, and sketched
   letters in bright red; which she then underlined, using the same
   marker, in blue:

   TRANSFIGURATION IS NOT PERMANENT!

   "Transfiguration is not permanent!" said Professor McGonagall.
   "Transfiguration is not permanent! Transfiguration is not permanent!
   Mr. Potter, suppose a student Transfigured a block of wood into a cup
   of water, and you drank it. What do you imagine might happen to you
   when the Transfiguration wore off?" There was a pause. "Excuse me, I
   should not have asked that of you, Mr. Potter, I forgot that you are
   blessed with an unusually pessimistic imagination -"

   "I'm fine," Harry said, swallowing hard. "So the first answer is that I
   don't know," the Professor nodded approvingly, "but I imagine there
   might be... wood in my stomach, and in my bloodstream, and if any of
   that water had gotten absorbed into my body's tissues - would it be
   wood pulp or solid wood or..." Harry's grasp of magic failed him. He
   couldn't understand how wood mapped into water in the first place, so
   he couldn't understand what would happen after the water molecules were
   scrambled by ordinary thermal motions and the magic wore off and the
   mapping reversed.

   McGonagall's face was stiff. "As Mr. Potter has correctly reasoned, he
   would become extremely sick and require immediate Flooing to St.
   Mungo's Hospital if he was to have any chance of survival. Please turn
   your textbooks to page 5."

   Even without any sound in the moving picture, you could tell that the
   woman with horribly discolored skin was screaming.

   "The criminal who originally Transfigured gold into wine and gave it to
   this woman to drink, 'in payment of the debt' as he put it, received a
   sentence of ten years in Azkaban. Please turn to page 6. That is a
   Dementor. They are the guardians of Azkaban. They suck away at your
   magic, your life, and any happy thoughts you try to have. The picture
   on page 7 is of the criminal ten years later, on his release. You will
   note that he is dead - yes, Mr. Potter?"

   "Professor," Harry said, "if the worst happens in a case like that, is
   there any way of maintaining the Transfiguration?"

   "No," Professor McGonagall said flatly. "Sustaining a Transfiguration
   is a constant drain on your magic which scales with the size of the
   target form. And you would need to recontact the target every few
   hours, which is, in a case like this, impossible. Disasters like this
   are unrecoverable!"

   Professor McGonagall leaned forwards, her face very hard. "You will
   absolutely never under any circumstances Transfigure anything into a
   liquid or a gas. No water, no air. Nothing like water, nothing like
   air. Even if it is not meant to drink. Liquid evaporates, little bits
   and pieces of it get into the air. You will not Transfigure anything
   that is to be burned. It will make smoke and someone could breathe that
   smoke! You will never Transfigure anything that could conceivably go
   inside anyone's body by any means. No food. Nothing that looks like
   food. Not even as a funny little prank where you mean to tell them
   about your mud pie before they actually eat it. You will never do it.
   Period. Inside this classroom or out of it or anywhere. Is that well
   understood by every single student?"

   "Yes," said Harry, Hermione, and a few others. The rest seemed to be
   speechless.

   "Is that well understood by every single student?"

   "Yes," they said or muttered or whispered.

   "If you break any of these rules you will not further study
   Transfiguration during your stay at Hogwarts. Repeat along with me. I
   will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or gas."

   "I will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or gas," said the
   students in ragged chorus.

   "Again! Louder! I will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or
   gas."

   "I will never Transfigure anything into a liquid or gas."

   "I will never Transfigure anything that looks like food or anything
   else that goes inside a human body."

   "I will never Transfigure anything that is to be burned because it
   could make smoke."

   "You will never Transfigure anything that looks like money, including
   Muggle money," said Professor McGonagall. "The goblins have ways of
   finding out who did it. As a matter of recognised law, the goblin
   nation is in a permanent state of war with all magical counterfeiters.
   They will not send Aurors. They will send an army."

   "I will never Transfigure anything that looks like money," repeated the
   students.

   "And above all," said Professor McGonagall, "you will not Transfigure
   any living subject, especially yourselves. It will make you very sick
   and possibly dead, depending on how you Transfigure yourself and how
   long you maintain the change." Professor McGonagall paused. "Mr. Potter
   is currently holding up his hand because he has seen an Animagus
   transformation - specifically, a human transforming into a cat and back
   again. But an Animagus transformation is not free Transfiguration."

   Professor McGonagall took a small piece of wood out of her pocket. With
   a tap of her wand it became a glass ball. Then she said "Crystferrium!"
   and the glass ball became a steel ball. She tapped it with her wand one
   last time and the steel ball became a piece of wood once more.
   "Crystferrium transforms a subject of solid glass into a similarly
   shaped target of solid steel. It cannot do the reverse, nor can it
   transform a desk into a pig. The most general form of Transfiguration -
   free Transfiguration, which you will be learning here - is capable of
   transforming any subject into any target, at least so far as physical
   form is concerned. For this reason, free Transfiguration must be done
   wordlessly. Using Charms would require different words for every
   different transformation between subject and target."

   Professor McGonagall gave her students a sharp look. "Some teachers
   begin with Transfiguration Charms and move on to free Transfiguration
   afterwards. Yes, that would be much easier in the beginning. But it can
   set you in a poor mold which impairs your abilities later. Here you
   will learn free Transfiguration from the very start, which requires
   that you cast the spell wordlessly, by holding the subject form, the
   target form, and the transformation within your own mind."

   "And to answer Mr. Potter's question," Professor McGonagall went on,
   "it is free Transfiguration which you must never do to any living
   subject. There are Charms and potions which can safely, reversibly
   transform living subjects in limited ways. An Animagus with a missing
   limb will still be missing that limb after transforming, for example.
   Free Transfiguration is not safe. Your body will change while it is
   Transfigured - breathing, for example, results in a constant loss of
   the body's stuff to the surrounding air. When the Transfiguration wears
   off and your body tries to revert to its original form, it will not
   quite be able to do so. If you press your wand to your body and imagine
   yourself with golden hair, afterwards your hair will fall out. If you
   visualise yourself as someone with clearer skin, you will be taking a
   long stay at St. Mungo's. And if you Transfigure yourself into an adult
   bodily form, then, when the Transfiguration wears off, you will die."

   That explained why he had seen such things as fat boys, or girls less
   than perfectly pretty. Or old people, for that matter. That wouldn't
   happen if you could just Transfigure yourself every morning... Harry
   raised his hand and tried to signal Professor McGonagall with his eyes.

   "Yes, Mr. Potter?"

   "Is it possible to Transfigure a living subject into a target that is
   static, such as a coin - no, excuse me, I'm terribly sorry, let's just
   say a steel ball."

   Professor McGonagall shook her head. "Mr. Potter, even inanimate
   objects undergo small internal changes over time. There would be no
   visible changes to your body afterwards, and for the first minute, you
   would notice nothing wrong. But in an hour you would be sick, and in a
   day you would be dead."

   "Erm, excuse me, so if I'd read the first chapter I could have guessed
   that the desk was originally a desk and not a pig," Harry said, "but
   only if I made the further assumption that you didn't want to kill the
   pig, that might seem highly probable but -"

   "I can foresee that marking your tests will be an endless source of
   delight to me, Mr. Potter. But if you have other questions can I please
   ask you to wait until after class?"

   "No further questions, professor."

   "Now repeat after me," said Professor McGonagall. "I will never try to
   Transfigure any living subject, especially myself, unless specifically
   instructed to do so using a specialised Charm or potion."

   "If I am not sure whether a Transfiguration is safe, I will not try it
   until I have asked Professor McGonagall or Professor Flitwick or
   Professor Snape or the Headmaster, who are the only recognised
   authorities on Transfiguration at Hogwarts. Asking another student is
   not acceptable, even if they say that they remember asking the same
   question."

   "Even if the current Defence Professor at Hogwarts tells me that a
   Transfiguration is safe, and even if I see the Defence Professor do it
   and nothing bad seems to happen, I will not try it myself."

   "I have the absolute right to refuse to perform any Transfiguration
   about which I feel the slightest bit nervous. Since not even the
   Headmaster of Hogwarts can order me to do otherwise, I certainly will
   not accept any such order from the Defence Professor, even if the
   Defence Professor threatens to deduct one hundred House points and have
   me expelled."

   "If I break any of these rules I will not further study Transfiguration
   during my time at Hogwarts."

   "We will repeat these rules at the start of every class for the first
   month," said Professor McGonagall. "And now, we will begin with matches
   as subjects and needles as targets... put away your wands, thank you,
   by 'begin' I meant that you will begin taking notes."

   Half an hour before the end of class, Professor McGonagall handed out
   the matches.

   At the end of the class Hermione had a silvery-looking match and the
   entire rest of the class, Muggleborn or otherwise, had exactly what
   they'd started with.

   Professor McGonagall awarded her another point for Ravenclaw.
     __________________________________________________________________

   After the Transfiguration class was dismissed, Hermione came over to
   Harry's desk as Harry was putting away his books into his pouch.

   "You know," Hermione said with an innocent expression on her face, "I
   earned two points for Ravenclaw today."

   "So you did," Harry said shortly.

   "But that wasn't as good as your seven points," she said. "I guess I'm
   just not as intelligent as you."

   Harry finished feeding his homework into the pouch and turned to
   Hermione with his eyes narrowed. He'd actually forgotten about that.

   She batted her eyelashes at him. "We have lessons every day, though. I
   wonder how long it will take you to find some more Hufflepuffs to
   rescue? Today is Monday. So that gives you until Thursday."

   The two of them stared into each other's eyes, unblinking.

   Harry spoke first. "Of course you realise this means war."

   "I didn't know we'd been at peace."

   All of the other students were now watching with fascinated eyes. All
   of the other students, plus, unfortunately, Professor McGonagall.

   "Oh, Mr. Potter," sang Professor McGonagall from the other side of the
   room, "I have some good news for you. Madam Pomfrey has approved your
   suggestion for preventing breakage in her Spimster wickets, and the
   plan is to finish the job by the end of next week. I'd say that
   deserves... let's call it ten points for Ravenclaw."

   Hermione's face was gaping in betrayal and shock. Harry imagined his
   own face didn't look much different.

   "Professor..." Harry hissed.

   "Those ten points are unquestionably deserved, Mr. Potter. I would not
   hand out House points on a whim. To you it might have been a simple
   matter of seeing something fragile and suggesting a way to protect it,
   but Spimster wickets are expensive, and the Headmaster was not pleased
   the last time one broke." Professor McGonagall looked thoughtful. "My,
   I wonder if any other student has ever earned seventeen House points on
   his first day of lessons. I'll have to look it up, but I suspect that's
   a new record. Perhaps we should have an announcement at dinnertime?"

   "PROFESSOR!" Harry shrieked. "This is our war! Stop meddling!"

   "Now you have until Thursday of next week, Mr. Potter. Unless, of
   course, you engage in some sort of mischief and lose House points
   before then. Addressing a professor disrespectfully, for example."
   Professor McGonagall put a finger on her cheek and looked reflective.
   "I expect you'll hit negative numbers before the end of Friday."

   Harry's mouth snapped shut. He sent his best Death Glare at McGonagall
   but she only seemed to find it amusing.

   "Yes, definitely an announcement at dinner," Professor McGonagall
   mused. "But it wouldn't do to offend the Slytherins, so the
   announcement should be brief. Just the number of points and the fact of
   the record... and if anyone comes to you for help with their schoolwork
   and is disappointed that you haven't even started reading your
   textbooks, you can always refer them to Miss Granger."

   "Professor!" said Hermione in a rather high-pitched voice.

   Professor McGonagall ignored her. "My, I wonder how long it will take
   before Miss Granger does something deserving of a dinnertime
   announcement? I look forward to seeing it, whatever it may be."

   Harry and Hermione, by unspoken mutual consent, turned and stormed out
   of the classroom. They were followed by a trail of hypnotised
   Ravenclaws.

   "Um," Harry said. "Are we still on for after dinner?"

   "Of course," said Hermione. "I wouldn't want you to fall further behind
   on your studying."

   "Why, thank you. And let me say that as brilliant as you are already, I
   can't help but wonder what you'll be like once you have some elementary
   training in rationality."

   "Is it really that useful? It didn't seem to help you with Charms or
   Transfiguration."

   There was a slight pause.

   "Well, I only got my schoolbooks four days ago. That's why I had to
   earn those seventeen House points without using my wand."

   "Four days ago? Maybe you can't read eight books in four days but you
   might have at least read one. How many days will it take to finish at
   that rate? You know all that mathematics, so can you tell me what's
   eight, times four, divided by zero?"

   "I've got classes now, which you didn't, but weekends are free, so...
   limit of eight times four divided by epsilon as epsilon approaches zero
   plus... 10:47AM on Sunday."

   "I did it in three days actually."

   "2:47PM on Saturday it is, then. I'm sure I'll find the time
   somewhere."

   And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.
   Chapter 16: Lateral Thinking

   The enemy's gate is Rowling.
     __________________________________________________________________

   I'm not a psychopath, I'm just very creative.
     __________________________________________________________________

   As soon as he walked into the Defence classroom on Wednesday, Harry
   knew that this subject was going to be different.

   It was, for a start, the largest classroom he had yet seen at Hogwarts,
   akin to a major university classroom, with layered tiers of desks
   facing a gigantic flat stage of white marble. The classroom was high up
   in the castle - on the fifth floor - and Harry knew that was as much
   explanation as he'd get for where a room like this was supposed to fit.
   It was becoming clear that Hogwarts simply did not have a geometry,
   Euclidean or otherwise; it had connections, not directions.

   Unlike a university hall, there weren't rows of folding seats; instead
   there were quite ordinary Hogwarts wooden desks and wooden chairs,
   lined up in a curve across each level of the classroom. Except that
   each desk had a flat, white, rectangular, mysterious object propped up
   on it.

   In the center of the gigantic platform, on a small raised dais of
   darker marble, was a lone teacher's desk. At which Quirrell sat slumped
   over in his chair, head lolled back, drooling slightly over his robes.

   Now what does that remind me of...?

   Harry had arrived at the lesson so early that no other students were
   there yet. (The English language was defective when it came to
   describing time travel; in particular, English lacked any words capable
   of expressing how convenient it was.) Quirrell didn't seem to be...
   functional... at the moment, and Harry didn't particularly feel like
   approaching Quirrell anyway.

   Harry selected a desk, climbed up to it, sat down, and retrieved the
   Defence textbook. He was around seven-eighths of the way through - he'd
   planned on finishing the book before this lesson, actually, but he was
   running behind schedule and had already used the Time-Turner twice
   today.

   Soon there were sounds as the classroom began to fill up. Harry ignored
   them.

   "Potter? What are you doing here?"

   That voice didn't belong here. Harry looked up. "Draco? What are you
   doing in oh my god you have minions."

   One of the lads standing behind Draco seemed to have rather a lot of
   muscle for an eleven-year-old, and the other was poised in a
   suspiciously balanced-looking stance.

   The white-blonde-haired boy smiled rather smugly and gestured behind
   him. "Potter, I introduce to you Mr. Crabbe," his hand moved from
   Muscles to Balance, "Mr. Goyle. Vincent, Gregory, this is Harry
   Potter."

   Mr. Goyle tilted his head and gave Harry a look that was probably
   supposed to mean something but ended up just looking squinty. Mr.
   Crabbe said "Please to meetcha" in a tone that sounded like he was
   trying to lower his voice as far as it could go.

   A fleeting expression of consternation crossed Draco's face, but was
   quickly replaced by his superior grin.

   "You have minions!" Harry repeated. "Where do I get minions?"

   Draco's smirk grew wider. "I'm afraid, Potter, that the first step is
   to be Sorted into Slytherin -"

   "What? That's not fair!"

   "- and then for your families to have an arrangement from before you
   were born."

   Harry looked at Mr. Crabbe and Mr. Goyle. They both seemed to be trying
   very hard to loom. That is, they were leaning forwards, hunching over
   their shoulders, sticking their necks out and staring at him.

   "Um... hold on," said Harry. "This was arranged years ago?"

   "Exactly, Potter. I'm afraid you're out of luck."

   Mr. Goyle produced a toothpick and began cleaning his teeth, still
   looming.

   "And," said Harry, "Lucius insisted that you were not to grow up
   knowing your bodyguards, and that you were only to meet them on your
   first day of school."

   That wiped the grin from Draco's face. "Yes, Potter, we all know you're
   brilliant, the whole school knows by now, you can stop showing off -"

   "So they've been told their whole lives that they're going to be your
   minions and they've spent years imagining what minions are supposed to
   be like -"

   Draco winced.

   "- and what's worse, they do know each other and they've been
   practising -"

   "The boss told ya to shut it," rumbled Mr. Crabbe. Mr. Goyle bit down
   on his toothpick, holding it between his teeth, and used one hand to
   crack the knuckles on the other.

   "I told you not to do this in front of Harry Potter!"

   The two looked a bit sheepish and Mr. Goyle quickly put the toothpick
   back in a pocket of his robes.

   But the moment Draco turned away from them to face Harry again, they
   went back to looming.

   "I apologise," Draco said stiffly, "for the insult which these
   imbeciles have offered you."

   Harry gave a meaningful look to Mr. Crabbe and Mr. Goyle. "I'd say
   you're being a little harsh on them, Draco. I think they're acting
   exactly the way I'd want my minions to act. I mean, if I had any
   minions."

   Draco's jaw dropped.

   "Hey, Gregory, you don' think he's tryna lure us away from the boss, do
   ya?"

   "I'm sure Mr. Potter wouldn't be that foolish."

   "Oh, I wouldn't dream of it," Harry said smoothly. "It's just something
   to keep in mind if your current employer seems unappreciative. Besides,
   it never hurts to have other offers while you're negotiating your
   working conditions, right?"

   "What's he doin' in Ravenclaw?"

   "I can't imagine, Mr. Crabbe."

   "Both of you shut up," Draco said through gritted teeth. "That's an
   order." With a visible effort, he transferred his attention to Harry
   again. "Anyway, what're you doing in the Slytherin Defence class?"

   Harry frowned. "Hold on." His hand went into his pouch. "Timetable." He
   looked over the parchment. "Defence, 2:30pm, and right now it's..."
   Harry looked at his mechanical watch, which read 11:23. "2:23, unless
   I've lost track of time. Did I?" If he had, well, Harry knew how to get
   to whatever lesson he was supposed to be at. God he loved his
   Time-Turner and someday, when he was old enough, they would get
   married.

   "No, that sounds right," Draco said, looking puzzled. His gaze turned
   to look over the rest of the auditorium, which was filling with
   green-trimmed robes and...

   "Gryffindorks!" spat Draco. "What're they doing here?"

   "Hm," Harry said. "Professor Quirrell did say... I forget his exact
   words... that he would be ignoring some of the Hogwarts teaching
   conventions. Maybe he just combined all his classes."

   "Huh," said Draco. "You're the first Ravenclaw in here."

   "Yup. Got here early."

   "What're you doing all the way in the back row, then?"

   Harry blinked. "I dunno, seemed like a good place to sit?"

   Draco made a scoffing sound. "You couldn't get any further away from
   the teacher if you tried." The blonde-haired boy leaned slightly
   closer. "Anyway, is it true about what you said to Derrick and his
   crew?"

   "Who's Derrick?"

   "You hit him with a pie?"

   "Two pies, actually. What am I supposed to have said to him?"

   "That he wasn't doing anything cunning or ambitious and he was a
   disgrace to Salazar Slytherin." Draco was staring intently at Harry.

   "That... sounds about right," Harry said. "I think it was more like,
   'is this some kind of incredibly clever plot that will gain you a
   future advantage or is it really as much of a disgrace to the memory of
   Salazar Slytherin as it looks like' or something like that. I don't
   remember the exact words."

   "You're confusing everyone, you know," said the blonde-haired boy.

   "Huh?" Harry said in honest confusion.

   "Warrington said that spending a long time under the Sorting Hat is one
   of the warning signs of a major Dark Wizard. Everyone was talking about
   it, wondering if they should start sucking up to you just in case. Then
   you went and protected a bunch of Hufflepuffs, for Merlin's sake. Then
   you told Derrick he's a disgrace to Salazar Slytherin's memory! What's
   anyone supposed to think?"

   "That the Sorting Hat decided to put me in the House of 'Slytherin!
   Just kidding! Ravenclaw!' and I've been acting accordingly."

   Mr. Crabbe and Mr. Goyle both giggled, causing Mr. Goyle to quickly
   clap a hand to his mouth.

   "We'd better go get our seats," Draco said. He hesitated, straightened
   a bit, spoke a bit more fomally. "But I do want to continue our last
   conversation and I accept your conditions."

   Harry nodded. "Would you mind terribly if I waited until Saturday
   afternoon? I'm in a bit of a contest right now."

   "A contest?"

   "See if I can read all my textbooks as fast as Hermione Granger did."

   "Granger," Draco echoed. His eyes narrowed. "The mudblood who thinks
   she's Merlin? If you're trying to show her up then all Slytherin wishes
   you the very best luck, Potter, and I won't bother you 'til Saturday."
   Draco inclined his head respectfully, and wandered off, tailed by his
   minions.

   Oh, this is going to be so much fun to juggle, I can already tell.

   The classroom was filling up rapidly now with all four colors of trim:
   green, red, yellow, and blue. Draco and his two friends seemed to be in
   the midst of trying to acquire three contiguous front-row seats -
   already occupied, of course. Mr. Crabbe and Mr. Goyle were looming
   vigorously, but it didn't seem to be having much effect.

   Harry bent over his Defence textbook and continued reading.
     __________________________________________________________________

   At 2:35PM, when most of the seats were taken and no one else seemed to
   be coming in, Professor Quirrell gave a sudden jerk in his chair and
   sat up straight, and his face appeared on all the flat, white
   rectangular objects that were propped up on the students' desks.

   Harry was taken by surprise, both by the sudden appearance of Professor
   Quirrell's face and by the resemblance to Muggle television. There was
   something both nostalgic and sad about that, it seemed so much like a
   piece of home and yet it wasn't really...

   "Good afternoon, my young apprentices," said Professor Quirrell. His
   voice seemed to come from the desk screen and to be speaking directly
   to Harry. "Welcome to your first lesson in Battle Magic, as the
   founders of Hogwarts would have put it; or, as it happens to be called
   in the late twentieth century, Defence Against the Dark Arts."

   There was a certain amount of frantic scrabbling as students, taken by
   surprise, reached for their parchment or notebooks.

   "No," Professor Quirrell said. "Don't bother writing down what this
   subject was once called. No such pointless question will count toward
   your marks in any of my lessons. That is a promise."

   Many students sat straight up at that, looking rather shocked.

   Professor Quirrell was smiling thinly. "Those of you who have wasted
   time by reading your useless first-year Defence textbooks -"

   Someone made a choking sound. Harry wondered if it was Hermione.

   "- may have gotten the impression that although this subject is called
   Defence Against the Dark Arts, it is actually about how to defend
   against Nightmare Butterflies, which cause mildly bad dreams, or Acid
   Slugs, which can dissolve all the way through a two-inch wooden beam
   given most of a day."

   Professor Quirrell stood up, shoving his chair back from the desk. The
   screen on Harry's desk followed his every move. Professor Quirrell
   strode towards the front of the classroom, and bellowed:

   "The Hungarian Horntail is taller than a dozen men! It breathes fire so
   quickly and so accurately that it can melt a Snitch in midflight! One
   Killing Curse will bring it down!"

   There were gasps from the students.

   "The Mountain Troll is more dangerous than the Hungarian Horntail! It
   is strong enough to bite through steel! Its hide is resistant enough to
   withstand Stunning Hexes and Cutting Charms! Its sense of smell is so
   acute that it can tell from afar whether its prey is part of a pack, or
   alone and vulnerable! Most fearsome of all, the troll is unique among
   magical creatures in continuously maintaining a form of Transfiguration
   on itself - it is always transforming into its own body. If you somehow
   succeed in ripping off its arm it will grow another within seconds!
   Fire and acid will produce scar tissue which can temporarily confuse a
   troll's regenerative powers - for an hour or two! They are smart enough
   to use clubs as tools! The mountain troll is the third most perfect
   killing machine in all Nature! One Killing Curse will bring it down."

   The students were looking rather shocked.

   Professor Quirrell was smiling rather grimly. "Your sad excuse for a
   third-year Defence textbook will suggest to you that you expose the
   mountain troll to sunlight, which will freeze it in place. This, my
   young apprentices, is the sort of useless knowledge you will never find
   in my lessons. You do not encounter mountain trolls in open daylight!
   The idea that you should use sunlight to stop them is the result of
   foolish textbook authors trying to show off their mastery of minutia at
   the expense of practicality. Just because there is a ridiculously
   obscure way of dealing with mountain trolls does not mean you should
   actually try to use it! The Killing Curse is unblockable, unstoppable,
   and works every single time on anything with a brain. If, as an adult
   wizard, you find yourself incapable of using the Killing Curse, then
   you can simply Apparate away! Likewise if you are facing the second
   most perfect killing machine, a Dementor. You just Apparate away!"

   "Unless, of course," Professor Quirrell said, his voice now lower and
   harder, "you are under the influence of an anti-Apparition jinx. No,
   there is exactly one monster which can threaten you once you are fully
   grown. The single most dangerous monster in all the world, so dangerous
   that nothing else comes close. The Dark Wizard. That is the only thing
   that will still be able to threaten you."

   Professor Quirrell's lips were set in a thin line. "I will reluctantly
   teach you enough trivia for a passing mark on the Ministry-mandated
   portions of your first-year finals. Since your exact mark on these
   sections will make no difference to your future life, anyone who wants
   more than a passing mark is welcome to waste their own time studying
   our pathetic excuse for a textbook. The title of this subject is not
   Defence Against Minor Pests. You are here to learn how to defend
   yourselves against the Dark Arts. Which means, let us be very clear on
   this, defending yourselves against Dark Wizards. People with wands who
   want to hurt you and who will likely succeed in doing so unless you
   hurt them first! There is no defence without offence! There is no
   defence without fighting! This reality is deemed too harsh for
   eleven-year-olds by the fat, overpaid, Auror-guarded politicians who
   mandated your curriculum. To the abyss with those fools! You are here
   for the subject that has been taught at Hogwarts for eight hundred
   years! Welcome to your first year of Battle Magic!"

   Harry started applauding. He couldn't help himself, it was too
   inspiring.

   Once Harry started clapping there was some scattered response from
   Gryffindor, and more from Slytherin, but most students simply seemed
   too stunned to react.

   Professor Quirrell made a cutting gesture, and the applause died
   instantly. "Thank you very much," said Professor Quirrell. "Now to
   practicalities. I have combined all my first-year Battle classes into
   one, which allows me to offer you twice as much classroom time as
   Doubles sessions -"

   There were gasps of horror.

   "- an increased load which I will make up to you by not assigning any
   homework."

   The gasps of horror cut off abruptly.

   "Yes, you heard me correctly. I will teach you to fight, not to write
   twelve inches on fighting due Monday."

   Harry desperately wished he'd sat next to Hermione so he could see the
   look on her face now, but on the other hand he was pretty sure he was
   imagining it accurately.

   Also Harry was in love. It would be a three-way wedding: him, the
   Time-Turner, and Professor Quirrell.

   "For those of you who so choose, I have arranged some after-school
   activities that I think you will find quite interesting as well as
   educational. Do you want to show the world your own abilities instead
   of watching fourteen other people play Quidditch? More than seven
   people can fight in an army."

   Hot damn.

   "These and other after-school activities will also earn you Quirrell
   points. What are Quirrell points, you ask? The House point system does
   not suit my needs, because it makes House points too rare. I prefer to
   let my students know how they are doing more frequently than that. And
   on the rare occasions I offer you a written test, it will mark itself
   as you go along, and if you get too many related questions wrong, your
   test will show the names of students who got those questions right, and
   those students will be able to earn Quirrell points by helping you."

   ...wow. Why didn't the other professors use a system like that?

   "What good are Quirrell points, you wonder? For a start, ten Quirrell
   points will be worth one House point. But they will earn you other
   favors as well. Would you like to take your exam at an unusual time? Is
   there a particular session you would very much prefer to skip? You will
   find that I can be very flexible on behalf of students who have
   accumulated enough Quirrell points. Quirrell points will control the
   generalship of the armies. And for Christmas - just before the
   Christmas break - I will grant someone a wish. Any school-related feat
   that lies within my power, my influence, or above all, my ingenuity.
   Yes, I was in Slytherin and I am offering to formulate a cunning plot
   on your behalf, if that is what it takes to accomplish your desire.
   This wish will go to whoever has earned the most Quirrell points within
   all seven years."

   That would be Harry.

   "Now leave your books and loose items at your desks - they will be
   safe, the screens will watch over them for you - and come down onto
   this platform. It's time to play a game called Who's the Most Dangerous
   Student in the Classroom."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Harry twisted his wand in his right hand and said "Ma-ha-su!"

   There was another high-pitched "bing" from the floating blue sphere
   that Professor Quirrell had assigned to Harry as his target. That
   particular sound meant a perfect strike, which Harry had been gotten on
   nine out of his last ten attempts.

   Somewhere Professor Quirrell had dug up a spell that was incredibly
   easy to pronounce, and had a ridiculously simple wand motion, and had a
   tendency to hit wherever you were currently looking at. Professor
   Quirrell had disdainfully proclaimed that real battle magic was far
   more difficult than this. That the hex was entirely useless in actual
   combat. That it was a barely ordered burst of magic whose only real
   content was the aiming, and that it would produce, when it hit, a pain
   briefly equivalent to being punched hard in the nose. That the sole
   purpose of this test was to see who was a fast learner, since Professor
   Quirrell was certain no one would have previously encountered this hex
   or anything like it.

   Harry didn't care about any of that.

   "Ma-ha-su!"

   A red bolt of energy shot out of his wand and struck the target and the
   blue sphere once again made the bing which meant the spell had actually
   worked for him.

   Harry was feeling like a real wizard for the first time since he'd come
   to Hogwarts. He wished the target would dodge like the little spheres
   that Ben Kenobi had used for training Luke, but for some reason
   Professor Quirrell had instead lined up all the students and targets in
   neat orders which made sure they wouldn't fire on each other.

   So Harry lowered his wand, skipped to the right, snapped up his wand
   and twisted and shouted "Ma-ha-su!"

   There was a lower-pitched "dong" which meant he'd gotten it almost
   right.

   Harry put his wand into his pocket, skipped back to the left and drew
   and fired another red bolt of energy.

   The high-pitched bing which resulted was easily one of the most
   satisfying sounds he'd heard in his life. Harry wanted to scream in
   triumph at the top of his lungs. I CAN DO MAGIC! FEAR ME, LAWS OF
   PHYSICS, I'M COMING TO VIOLATE YOU!

   "Ma-ha-su!" Harry's voice was loud, but hardly noticeable over the
   steady chant of similar cries from around the classroom platform.

   "Enough," said Professor Quirrell's amplified voice. (It didn't sound
   loud. It sounded like normal volume, coming from just behind your left
   shoulder, no matter where you were standing relative to Professor
   Quirrell.) "I see that all of you have succeeded at least once now."
   The target-spheres turned red and began to drift up towards the
   ceiling.

   Professor Quirrell was standing on the raised dais in the center of the
   platform, leaning slightly on his teacher's desk with one hand.

   "I told you," Professor Quirrell said, "that we would play a game
   called Who's the Most Dangerous Student in the Classroom. There is one
   student in this classroom who mastered the Sumerian Simple Strike Hex
   faster than anyone else -"

   Oh blah blah blah.

   "- and went on to help seven other students. For which she has earned
   the first seven Quirrell points awarded to your year. Come forth,
   Hermione Granger. It is time for the next stage of the game."

   Hermione Granger began striding forwards, a mixed look of triumph and
   apprehension on her face. The Ravenclaws looked on proudly, the
   Slytherins with glares, and Harry with frank annoyance. Harry had done
   fine this time. He was probably even in the upper half of the class,
   now that everyone had been faced with an equally unfamiliar spell and
   Harry had read all the way through Adalbert Waffling's Magical Theory.
   And yet Hermione was still doing better.

   Somewhere in the back of his mind was the fear that Hermione was simply
   smarter than him.

   But for now Harry was going to pin his hopes on the known facts that
   (a) Hermione had read a lot more than the standard textbooks and (b)
   Adalbert Waffling was an uninspired sod who'd written Magical Theory to
   pander to a school board that didn't think much of eleven-year-olds.

   Hermione reached the central dais and stepped up.

   "Hermione Granger mastered a completely unfamiliar spell in two
   minutes, almost a full minute faster than the next runner-up."
   Professor Quirrell turned slowly in place to look at all the students
   watching them. "Could Miss Granger's intelligence make her the most
   dangerous student in the classroom? Well? What do you think?"

   No one seemed to be thinking anything at the moment. Even Harry wasn't
   sure what to say.

   "Let's find out, shall we?" said Professor Quirrell. He turned back to
   Hermione, and gestured toward the wider class. "Select any student you
   like and cast the Simple Strike Hex on them."

   Hermione froze where she stood.

   "Come now," Professor Quirrell said smoothly. "You have cast this spell
   perfectly over fifty times. It is not permanently harmful or even all
   that painful. It hurts as much as a hard punch and lasts only a few
   seconds." Professor Quirrell's voice grew harder. "This is a direct
   order from your professor, Miss Granger. Choose a target and fire a
   Simple Strike Hex."

   Hermione's face was screwed up in horror and her wand was trembling in
   her hand. Harry's own fingers were clenching his own wand hard in
   sympathy. Even though he could see what Professor Quirrell was trying
   to do. Even though he could see the point Professor Quirrell was trying
   to make.

   "If you do not raise your wand and fire, Miss Granger, you will lose a
   Quirrell point."

   Harry stared at Hermione, willing her to look in his direction. His
   right hand was softly tapping his own chest. Pick me, I'm not afraid...

   Hermione's wand twitched in her hand; then her face relaxed, and she
   lowered her wand to her side.

   "No," said Hermione Granger.

   Her voice was calm, and even though it wasn't loud, everyone heard it
   in the silence.

   "Then I must deduct one point from you," said Professor Quirrell. "This
   is a test, and you have failed it."

   That reached her. Harry could see it. But she kept her shoulders
   straight.

   Professor Quirrell's voice was sympathetic and seemed to fill the whole
   room. "Knowing things isn't always enough, Miss Granger. If you cannot
   give and receive violence on the order of stubbing your toe, then you
   cannot defend yourself and you will not pass Defence. Please rejoin
   your classmates."

   Hermione walked back towards the Ravenclaw cluster. Her face looked
   peaceful and Harry, for some odd reason, wanted to start clapping. Even
   though Professor Quirrell had been right.

   "So," Professor Quirrell said. "It becomes clear that Hermione Granger
   is not the most dangerous student in the classroom. Who do you think
   might actually be the most dangerous person here? - besides me, of
   course."

   Without even thinking, Harry turned to look at the Slytherin
   contingent.

   "Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy," said Professor
   Quirrell. "It seems that many of your fellow pupils are looking in your
   direction. Come forth, if you would."

   Draco did so, walking with a certain pride in his bearing. He stepped
   onto the dais and looked up at Professor Quirrell with a smile.

   "Mr. Malfoy," Professor Quirrell said. "Fire."

   Harry would have tried to stop it if there'd been time but in one
   smooth motion Draco spun on the Ravenclaw contingent and raised his
   wand and said "Mahasu!" like it was all one syllable and Hermione was
   saying "Ow!" and that was that.

   "Well struck," said Professor Quirrell. "Two Quirrell points to you.
   But tell me, why did you target Miss Granger?"

   There was a pause.

   Finally Draco said, "Because she stood out the most."

   Professor Quirrell's lips turned up in a thin smile. "And that is the
   true reason why Draco Malfoy is dangerous. Had he selected any other,
   that child would more likely resent being singled out, and Mr. Malfoy
   would more probably make an enemy. And while Mr. Malfoy might have
   given some other justification for selecting her, that would have
   served him no purpose save to alienate some of you, while others are
   already cheering him whether he says anything or not. Which is to say
   that Mr. Malfoy is dangerous because he knows who to strike and who not
   to strike, how to make allies and avoid making enemies. Two more
   Quirrell points to you, Mr. Malfoy. And as you have demonstrated an
   exemplary virtue of Slytherin, I think that Salazar's House has earned
   a point as well. You may rejoin your friends."

   Draco bowed slightly and walked back to the Slytherin contingent. Some
   clapping started from the green-trimmed robes, but Professor Quirrell
   made a cutting gesture and silence fell again.

   "It might seem that our game is done," said Professor Quirrell. "And
   yet there is a single student in this classroom who is more dangerous
   than the scion of Malfoy."

   And now for some reason there seemed to be an awful lot of people
   looking at...

   "Harry Potter. Come forth."

   This did not bode well.

   Harry reluctantly walked towards where Professor Quirrell stood on his
   raised dais, still leaning slightly against his teacher's desk.

   The nervousness of being put into the spotlight seemed to be sharpening
   Harry's wits as he approached the dais, and his mind was ruffling
   through possibilities for what Professor Quirrell might think could
   demonstrate Harry's dangerousness. Would he be asked to cast a spell?
   To defeat a Dark Lord?

   Demonstrate his supposed immunity to the Killing Curse? Surely
   Professor Quirrell was too smart for that...

   Harry stopped well short of the dais, and Professor Quirrell didn't ask
   him to come any closer.

   "The irony is," said Professor Quirrell, "you all looked at the right
   person for entirely the wrong reasons. You are thinking," Professor
   Quirrell's lips twisted, "that Harry Potter has defeated the Dark Lord,
   and so must be very dangerous. Bah. He was one year old. Whatever quirk
   of fate killed the Dark Lord likely had little to do with Mr. Potter's
   abilities as a fighter. But after I heard rumors of one Ravenclaw
   facing down five older Slytherins, I interviewed several eyewitnesses
   and came to the conclusion that Harry Potter would be my most dangerous
   student."

   A jolt of adrenaline poured into Harry's system, making him stand up
   straighter. He didn't know what conclusion Professor Quirrell had come
   to, but that couldn't be good.

   "Ah, Professor Quirrell -" Harry started to say.

   Professor Quirrell looked amused. "You're thinking that I've come up
   with a wrong answer, aren't you, Mr. Potter? You will learn to expect
   better of me." Professor Quirrell straightened from where he had leaned
   on the desk. "Mr. Potter, all things have their accustomed uses. Give
   me ten unaccustomed uses of objects in this room for combat!"

   For a moment Harry was rendered speechless by the sheer, raw shock of
   having been understood.

   And then the ideas started to pour out.

   "There are desks which are heavy enough to be fatal if dropped from a
   great height. There are chairs with metal legs that could impale
   someone if driven hard enough. The air in this classroom would be
   deadly by its absence, since people die in vacuum, and it can serve as
   a carrier for poison gases."

   Harry had to stop briefly for breath, and into that pause Professor
   Quirrell said:

   "That's three. You need ten. The rest of the class thinks that you've
   already used up the whole contents of the classroom."

   "Ha! The floor can be removed to create a spike pit to fall into, the
   ceiling can be collapsed on someone, the walls can serve as raw
   material for Transfiguration into any number of deadly things - knives,
   say."

   "That's six. But surely you're scraping the bottom of the barrel now?"

   "I haven't even started! Just look at all the people! Having a
   Gryffindor attack the enemy is an ordinary use, of course -"

   "I will not count that one."

   "- but their blood can also be used to drown someone. Ravenclaws are
   known for their brains, but their internal organs could be sold on the
   black market for enough money to hire an assassin. Slytherins aren't
   just useful as assassins, they can also be thrown at sufficient
   velocity to crush an enemy. And Hufflepuffs, in addition to being hard
   workers, also contain bones that can be removed, sharpened, and used to
   stab someone."

   By now the rest of the class was staring at Harry in some horror. Even
   the Slytherins looked shocked.

   "That's ten, though I'm being generous in counting the Ravenclaw one.
   Now, for extra credit, one Quirrell point for each use of objects in
   this room which you have not yet named." Professor Quirrell favored
   Harry with a companionable smile. "The rest of your class thinks you
   are in trouble now, since you've named everything except the targets
   and you have no idea what may be done with those."

   "Bah! I've named all the people, but not my robes, which can be used to
   suffocate an enemy if wrapped around their head enough times, or
   Hermione Granger's robes, which can be torn into strips and tied into a
   rope and used to hang someone, or Draco Malfoy's robes, which can be
   used to start a fire -"

   "Three points," said Professor Quirrell, "no more clothing now."

   "My wand can be pushed into an enemy's brain through their eye socket"
   and someone made a horrified, strangling sound.

   "Four points, no more wands."

   "My wristwatch could suffocate someone if jammed down their throat -"

   "Five points, and enough."

   "Hmph," Harry said. "Ten Quirrell points to one House point, right? You
   should have let me keep going until I'd won the House Cup, I haven't
   even started yet on the unaccustomed uses of everything I've got in my
   pockets" or the mokeskin pouch itself and he couldn't talk about the
   Time-Turner or the invisibility cloak but there had to be something he
   could say about those red spheres...

   "Enough, Mr. Potter. Well, do you all think you understand what makes
   Mr. Potter the most dangerous student in the classroom?"

   There was a low murmur of assent.

   "Say it out loud, please. Terry Boot, what makes your dorm-mate
   dangerous?"

   "Ah... um... he's creative?"

   "Wrong!" bellowed Professor Quirrell, and his fist came down sharply on
   his desk with an amplified sound that made everyone jump. "All of Mr.
   Potter's ideas were worse than useless!"

   Harry started in surprise.

   "Remove the floor to create a spike trap? Ridiculous! In combat you do
   not have that sort of preparation time and if you did there would be a
   hundred better uses! Transfigure material from the walls? Mr. Potter
   cannot perform Transfiguration! Mr. Potter had exactly one idea which
   he could use immediately, right now, without extensive preparation or a
   cooperative enemy or magic he does not know. That idea was to jam his
   wand through his enemy's eye socket. Which would be more likely to
   break his wand than kill his opponent! In short, Mr. Potter, I'm afraid
   that your proposals were uniformly awful."

   "What?" Harry said indignantly. "You asked for unusual ideas, not
   practical ones! I was thinking outside the box! How would you use
   something in this classroom to kill someone?"

   Professor Quirrell's expression was disapproving, but there were smile
   crinkles around his eyes. "Mr. Potter, I never said you were to kill.
   There is a time and a place for taking your enemy alive, and inside a
   Hogwarts classroom is usually one of those places. But to answer your
   question, hit them on the neck with the edge of a chair."

   There was some laughter from the Slytherins, but they were laughing
   with Harry, not at him.

   Everyone else was looking rather horrified.

   "But Mr. Potter has now demonstrated why he is the most dangerous
   student in the classroom. I asked for unaccustomed uses of items in
   this room for combat. Mr. Potter could have suggested using a desk to
   block a curse, or using a chair to trip an oncoming enemy, or wrapping
   cloth around his arm to create an improvised shield. Instead, every
   single use that Mr. Potter named was offensive rather than defensive,
   and either fatal or potentially fatal."

   What? Wait, that couldn't be true... Harry had a sudden sense of
   vertigo as he tried to remember what exactly he'd suggested, surely
   there had to be a counterexample...

   "And that," Professor Quirrell said, "is why Mr. Potter's ideas were so
   strange and useless - because he had to reach far into the impractical
   in order to meet his standard of killing the enemy. To him, any idea
   which fell short of that was not worth considering. This reflects a
   quality that we might call intent to kill. I have it. Harry Potter has
   it, which is how he could stare down five older Slytherins. Draco
   Malfoy does not have it, not yet. Mr. Malfoy would hardly shrink from
   talk of ordinary murder, but even he was shocked - yes you were Mr.
   Malfoy, I was watching your face - when Mr. Potter described how to use
   his classmates' bodies as raw material. There are censors inside your
   mind which make you flinch away from thoughts like that. Mr. Potter
   thinks purely of killing the enemy, he will grasp at any means to do
   so, he does not flinch, his censors are off. Even though his youthful
   genius is so undisciplined and impractical as to be useless, his intent
   to kill makes Harry Potter the Most Dangerous Student in the Classroom.
   One final point to him - no, let us make that a point to Ravenclaw -
   for this indispensable requisite of a true fighting wizard."

   Harry's mouth gaped open in speechless shock as he searched frantically
   for something to say to this. That is so completely not what I am
   about!

   But he could see that the other students were starting to believe it.
   Harry's mind was flipping through possible denials and not finding
   anything that could stand up against the authoritative voice of
   Professor Quirrell. The best Harry had come up with was "I'm not a
   psychopath, I'm just very creative" and that sounded kind of ominous.
   He needed to say something unexpected, something that would make people
   stop and reconsider -

   "And now," Professor Quirrell said. "Mr. Potter. Fire."

   Nothing happened, of course.

   "Ah, well," said Professor Quirrell. He sighed. "I suppose we must all
   start somewhere. Mr. Potter, select any student you please for a Simple
   Strike Hex. You will do so before I dismiss your class for the day. If
   you do not, I will begin deducting House points, and I will keep on
   deducting them until you do."

   Harry carefully raised his wand. He had to do that much, or Professor
   Quirrell might start deducting House points right away.

   Slowly, as though on a roasting platter, Harry turned to face the
   Slytherins.

   And Harry's eyes met Draco's.

   Draco Malfoy didn't look the slightest bit afraid. The blonde-haired
   boy wasn't giving any visible sign of assent such as Harry had given
   Hermione, but then he could hardly be expected to do so. The other
   Slytherins would think that rather odd.

   "Why the hesitation?" said Professor Quirrell. "Surely there's only one
   obvious choice."

   "Yes," Harry said. "Only one obvious choice."

   Harry twisted the wand and said "Ma-ha-su!"

   There was complete silence in the classroom.

   Harry shook his left arm, trying to get rid of the lingering sting.

   There was more silence.

   Finally Professor Quirrell sighed. "Yes, quite ingenious, but there was
   a lesson to be taught and you dodged it. One point from Ravenclaw for
   showing off your own cleverness at the expense of the actual goal.
   Class dismissed."

   And before anyone else could say anything, Harry sang out:

   "Just kidding! RAVENCLAW!"

   There was silence for a brief moment after that, a sound of people
   thinking, and then the murmurs started and rapidly rose to a roar of
   conversation.

   Harry turned towards Professor Quirrell, the two of them needed to talk
   -

   Quirrell had slumped over and was trudging back to his chair.

   No. Not acceptable. They really needed to talk. Stuff the zombie act,
   Professor Quirrell would probably wake up if Harry poked him a couple
   of times. Harry started forward -

   WRONG
   DON'T
   BAD IDEA

   Harry swayed and stopped in his tracks, feeling dizzy.

   And then a flock of Ravenclaws descended on him and the discussions
   began.
   Chapter 17: Locating the Hypothesis

   You have always been J. K. Rowling.

   Historical note: In the Roman calendar, the "Ides" of a month referred
   to the 15th day of March, May, July, and October, and to the 13th day
   of all other months.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "You start to see the pattern, hear the rhythm of the world."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Thursday.

   If you wanted to be specific, 7:24am on Thursday morning.

   Harry was sitting on his bed, a textbook lying limp in his motionless
   hands.

   Harry had just had an idea for a truly brilliant experimental test.

   It would mean waiting an extra hour for breakfast, but that was why he
   had cereal bars. No, this idea absolutely positively had to be tested
   right away, immediately, now.

   Harry set the textbook aside, leapt out of bed, raced around his bed,
   yanked out the cavern level of his trunk, ran down the stairs, and
   started moving boxes of books around. (He really needed to unpack and
   get bookcases at some point but he was in the middle of his textbook
   reading contest with Hermione and falling behind so he hadn't had
   time.)

   Harry found the book he wanted and raced back upstairs.

   The other boys were getting ready to go down to breakfast in the Great
   Hall and start the day.

   "Excuse me can you do something for me?" said Harry. He was flipping
   through the book's index as he spoke, found the page with the first ten
   thousand primes, flipped to that page, and thrust the book at Anthony
   Goldstein. "Pick two three-digit numbers from this list. Don't tell me
   what they are. Just multiply them together and tell me the product. Oh,
   and can you do the calculation twice to double-check? Please make
   really sure you've got the right answer, I'm not sure what's going to
   happen to me or the universe if you make a multiplication error."

   It said a lot about what life in that dorm had been like over the past
   few days that Anthony didn't even bother saying anything like "Why'd
   you suddenly flip out?" or "That seems really weird, what are your
   reasons for asking?" or "What do you mean, you're not sure what's going
   to happen to the universe?"

   Anthony wordlessly accepted the book and took out a parchment and
   quill. Harry spun around and shut his eyes, making sure not to see
   anything, dancing back and forth and bouncing up and down with
   impatience. He got a pad of paper and a mechanical pencil and got ready
   to write.

   "Okay," Anthony said, "One hundred and eighty-one thousand, four
   hundred and twenty-nine."

   Harry wrote down 181,429. He repeated what he'd just written down, and
   Anthony confirmed it.

   Then Harry raced back down into the cavern level of his trunk, glanced
   at his watch (the watch said 4:28 which meant 7:28) and then shut his
   eyes.

   Around thirty seconds later, Harry heard the sound of steps, followed
   by the sound of the cavern level of the trunk sliding shut. (Harry
   wasn't worried about suffocating. An automatic Air-Freshening Charm was
   part of what you got if you were willing to buy a really good trunk.
   Wasn't magic wonderful, it didn't have to worry about electric bills.)

   And when Harry opened his eyes, he saw just what he'd been hoping to
   see, a folded piece of paper left on the floor, the gift of his future
   self.

   Call that piece of paper "Paper-2".

   Harry tore a piece of paper off his pad.

   Call that "Paper-1". It was, of course, the same piece of paper. You
   could even see, if you looked closely, that the ragged edges matched.

   Harry reviewed in his mind the algorithm that he would follow.

   If Harry opened up Paper-2 and it was blank, then he would write "101 x
   101" down on Paper-1, fold it up, study for an hour, go back in time,
   drop off Paper-1 (which would thereby become Paper-2), and head on up
   out of the cavern level to join his dorm mates for breakfast.

   If Harry opened up Paper-2 and it had two numbers written on it, Harry
   would multiply those numbers together.

   If their product equaled 181,429, Harry would write down those two
   numbers on Paper-1 and send Paper-1 back in time.

   Otherwise Harry would add 2 to the number on the right and write down
   the new pair of numbers on Paper-1. Unless that made the number on the
   right greater than 997, in which case Harry would add 2 to the number
   on the left and write down 101 on the right.

   And if Paper-2 said 997 x 997, Harry would leave Paper-1 blank.

   Which meant that the only possible stable time loop was the one in
   which Paper-2 contained the two prime factors of 181,429.

   If this worked, Harry could use it to recover any sort of answer that
   was easy to check but hard to find. He wouldn't have just shown that
   P=NP once you had a Time-Turner, this trick was more general than that.
   Harry could use it to find the combinations on combination locks, or
   passwords of every sort. Maybe even find the entrance to Slytherin's
   Chamber of Secrets, if Harry could figure out some systematic way of
   describing all the locations in Hogwarts. It would be an awesome cheat
   even by Harry's standards of cheating.

   Harry took Paper-2 in his trembling hand, and unfolded it.

   Paper-2 said in slightly shaky handwriting:

   DO NOT MESS WITH TIME

   Harry wrote down "DO NOT MESS WITH TIME" on Paper-1 in slightly shaky
   handwriting, folded it neatly, and resolved not to do any more truly
   brilliant experiments on Time until he was at least fifteen years old.

   To the best of Harry's knowledge, that had been the scariest
   experimental result in the entire history of science.

   It had been somewhat difficult for Harry to focus on reading his
   textbook for the next hour.

   That was how Harry's Thursday started.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Thursday.

   If you wanted to be specific, 3:32pm on Thursday afternoon.

   Harry and all the other boys in the first year were outside on a grassy
   field with Madam Hooch, standing next to the Hogwarts supply of
   broomsticks. The girls would be learning to fly separately. Apparently,
   for some reason, girls didn't want to learn how to fly on broomsticks
   in the presence of boys.

   Harry had been a little wobbly all day long. He just couldn't seem to
   stop wondering how that particular stable time loop had been selected
   out of what was, in retrospect, a rather large space of possibilities.

   Also: seriously, broomsticks? He was going to fly on, basically, a line
   segment? Wasn't that pretty much the single most unstable shape you
   could possibly find, short of attempting to hold on to a point marble?
   Who'd selected that design for a flying device, out of all the
   possibilities? Harry had been hoping that it was just a figure of
   speech, but no, they were standing in front of what looked for all the
   world like ordinary wooden kitchen broomsticks. Had someone just gotten
   stuck on the idea of broomsticks and failed to consider anything else?
   It had to be. There was no way that the optimal designs for cleaning
   kitchens and flying would happen to coincide if you worked them out
   from scratch.

   It was a clear day with a bright blue sky and a brilliant sun that was
   just begging to get in your eyes and make it impossible to see, if you
   were trying to fly around the sky. The ground was nice and dry,
   smelling positively baked, and somehow felt very, very hard under
   Harry's shoes.

   Harry kept reminding himself that the lowest common denominator of
   eleven-year-olds was expected to learn this and it couldn't be that
   hard.

   "Stick out your right hand over the broom, or left hand if you're
   left-handed," called Madam Hooch. "And say, UP!"

   "UP!" everyone shouted.

   The broomstick leapt eagerly into Harry's hand.

   Which put him at the head of the class, for once. Apparently saying
   "UP!" was a lot more difficult than it looked, and most of the
   broomsticks were rolling around on the ground or trying to inch away
   from their would-be riders.

   (Of course Harry would have bet money that Hermione had done at least
   as well when it came her own turn to try, earlier in the day. There
   couldn't possibly be anything he could master on the first try which
   would baffle Hermione, and if there was and it turned out to be
   broomstick riding instead of anything intellectual, Harry would just
   die.)

   It took a while for everyone to get a broomstick in front of them.
   Madam Hooch showed them how to mount and then walked around the field,
   correcting grips and stances. Apparently even among the few children
   who'd been allowed to fly at home, they hadn't been taught to do it
   correctly.

   Madam Hooch surveyed the field of boys, and nodded. "Now, when I blow
   my whistle, you kick off from the ground, hard."

   Harry swallowed hard, trying to quell the queasy feeling in his
   stomach.

   "Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come straight back
   down by leaning forwards slightly. On my whistle - three - two -"

   One of the brooms shot skyward, accompanied by a young boy's screams -
   of horror, not delight. The boy was spinning at an awful rate as he
   ascended, they only got glimpses of his white face -

   As though in slow motion, Harry was leaping back off his own broomstick
   and scrabbling for his wand, though he didn't really know what he
   planned to do with it, he'd had exactly two sessions of Charms and the
   last one had been the Hover Charm but Harry had only been able to cast
   the spell successfully one time out of three and he certainly couldn't
   levitate whole people -

   If there is any hidden power in me, let it reveal itself NOW!

   "Come back, boy!" shouted Madam Hooch (which had to be the most
   unhelpful instruction imaginable for dealing with an out-of-control
   broomstick, from a flying instructor, and a fully automatic section of
   Harry's brain added Madam Hooch to his tally of fools).

   And the boy was thrown off the broomstick.

   He seemed to move very slowly through the air, at first.

   "Wingardium Leviosa!" screamed Harry.

   The spell failed. He could feel it fail.

   There was a THUD and a distant cracking sound, and the boy lay facedown
   on the grass in a heap.

   Harry sheathed his wand and raced forwards at full speed. He arrived at
   the boy's side at the same time as Madam Hooch, and Harry reached into
   his pouch and tried to recall oh god what was the name never mind he'd
   just try "Healer's Pack!" and it popped up into his hand and -

   "Broken wrist," Madam Hooch said. "Calm down, boy, he just has a broken
   wrist!"

   There was a sort of mental lurch as Harry's mind snapped out of Panic
   Mode.

   The Emergency Healing Pack Plus lay open in front of him, and there was
   a syringe of liquid fire in Harry's hand, which would have kept the
   boy's brain oxygenated if he'd managed to snap his neck.

   "Ah..." Harry said in a rather wavering sort of voice. His heart was
   pounding so loudly that he almost couldn't hear himself panting for
   breath. "Broken bone... right... Setting String?"

   "That's for emergencies only," snapped Madam Hooch. "Put it away, he's
   fine." She leaned over the boy, offering him a hand. "Come on, boy,
   it's all right, up you get!"

   "You're not seriously going to make him ride the broomstick again?"
   Harry said in horror.

   Madam Hooch sent Harry a glare. "Of course not!" She pulled the boy to
   his feet using his good arm - Harry saw with a shock that it was
   Neville Longbottom again, what was with him? - and she turned to all
   the watching children. "None of you is to move while I take this boy to
   the hospital wing! You leave those brooms where they are or you'll be
   out of Hogwarts before you can say 'Quidditch.' Come on, dear."

   And Madam Hooch walked off with Neville, who was clutching his wrist
   and trying to control his sniffles.

   When they were out of earshot, one of the Slytherins started giggling.

   That set off the others.

   Harry turned and looked at them. It seemed like a good time to memorise
   some faces.

   And Harry saw that Draco was strolling towards him, accompanied by Mr.
   Crabbe and Mr. Goyle. Mr. Crabbe wasn't smiling. Mr. Goyle decidedly
   was. Draco himself was wearing a very controlled face that twitched
   occasionally, from which Harry inferred that Draco thought it was
   hilarious but saw no political advantage to be gained by laughing about
   it now instead of in the Slytherin dungeons afterwards.

   "Well, Potter," Draco said in a low voice that didn't carry, still with
   that very controlled face that was twitching occasionally, "Just wanted
   to say, when you take advantage of emergencies to demonstrate
   leadership, you want to look like you're in total control of the
   situation, rather than, say, going into a complete panic." Mr. Goyle
   giggled, and Draco shot him a quelling look. "But you probably scored a
   few points anyway. You need any help stowing that healer's kit?"

   Harry turned to look at the Healing Pack, which got his own face turned
   away from Draco. "I think I'm fine," Harry said. He put the syringe
   back in its place, redid the latches, and stood up.

   Ernie Macmillan arrived just as Harry was feeding the pack back into
   his mokeskin pouch.

   "Thank you, Harry Potter, on behalf of Hufflepuff," Ernie Macmillan
   said formally. "It was a good try and a good thought."

   "A good thought indeed," drawled Draco. "Why didn't anyone in
   Hufflepuff have their wands out? Maybe if you'd all helped instead of
   just Potter, you could've caught him. I thought Hufflepuffs were
   supposed to stick together?"

   Ernie looked like he was torn between getting angry and wanting to die
   of shame. "We didn't think of it in time -"

   "Ah," said Draco, "didn't think of it, I guess that's why it's better
   to have one Ravenclaw as a friend than all of Hufflepuff."

   Oh, hell, how was Harry supposed to juggle this one... "You're not
   helping," Harry said in a mild tone. Hoping Draco would interpret that
   as you're interfering with my plans, please shut up.

   "Hey, what's this?" said Mr. Goyle. He stooped to the grass and picked
   up something around the size of a large marble, a glass ball that
   seemed to be filled with a swirling white mist.

   Ernie blinked. "Neville's Remembrall!"

   "What's a Remembrall?" asked Harry.

   "It turns red if you've forgotten something," Ernie said. "It doesn't
   tell you what you forgot, though. Give it here, please, and I'll hand
   it back to Neville later." Ernie held out his hand.

   A sudden grin flashed across Mr. Goyle's face and he spun around and
   raced away.

   Ernie stood still for a moment in surprise, and then shouted "Hey!" and
   ran after Mr. Goyle.

   And Mr. Goyle grabbed a broomstick, hopped on with one smooth motion
   and took to the air.

   Harry's jaw dropped. Hadn't Madam Hooch said that would get him
   expelled?

   "That idiot!" Draco hissed. He opened his mouth to shout -

   "Hey!" shouted Ernie. "That's Neville's! Give it back!"

   The Slytherins started cheering and hooting.

   Draco's mouth snapped shut. Harry caught the sudden look of indecision
   on his face.

   "Draco," Harry said in a low tone, "if you don't order that idiot back
   on the ground, the teacher's going to get back and -"

   "Come and get it, Hufflepuffle!" shouted Mr. Goyle, and a great cheer
   went up from the Slytherins.

   "I can't!" whispered Draco. "Everyone in Slytherin would think I'm
   weak!"

   "And if Mr. Goyle gets expelled," hissed Harry, "your father is going
   to think you're a moron!"

   Draco's face twisted in agony.

   At that moment -

   "Hey, Slytherslime," shouted Ernie, "didn't anyone ever tell you that
   Hufflepuffs stick together? Wands out, Hufflepuff!"

   And there were suddenly a whole lot of wands pointed in Mr. Goyle's
   direction.

   Three seconds later -

   "Wands out, Slytherin!" said around five different Slytherins.

   And there were a whole lot of wands pointed in Hufflepuff's direction.

   Two seconds later -

   "Wands out, Gryffindor!"

   "Do something, Potter!" whispered Draco. "I can't be the one to stop
   this it has to be you! I'll owe you a favour just think of something
   aren't you supposed to be brilliant?"

   In around five and a half seconds, realised Harry, someone was going to
   cast the Sumerian Simple Strike Hex and by the time it was over and the
   teachers were done expelling people the only boys left in his year
   would be Ravenclaws.

   "Wands out, Ravenclaw!" shouted Michael Corner who was apparently
   feeling left out of the disaster.

   "GREGORY GOYLE!" screamed Harry. "I challenge you to a contest for
   possession of Neville's Remembrall!"

   There was a sudden pause.

   "Oh, really?" said Draco in the loudest drawl Harry had ever heard.
   "That sounds interesting. What sort of contest, Potter?"

   Er...

   "Contest" had been as far as Harry's inspiration had gotten. What sort
   of contest, he couldn't say "chess" because Draco wouldn't be able to
   accept without it looking strange, he couldn't say "arm-wrestling"
   because Mr. Goyle would crush him -

   "How about this?" Harry said loudly. "Gregory Goyle and I stand apart
   from each other, and no one else is allowed to come near either of us.
   We don't use our wands and neither does anyone else. I don't move from
   where I'm standing, and neither does he. And if I can get my hands on
   Neville's Remembrall, then Gregory Goyle relinquishes all claim to that
   Remembrall he's holding and gives it to me."

   There was another pause as people's looks of relief transmuted to
   confusion.

   "Hah, Potter!" said Draco loudly. "I'd like to see you do that! Mr.
   Goyle accepts!"

   "It's on!" said Harry.

   "Potter, what?" whispered Draco, which he somehow did without moving
   his lips.

   Harry didn't know how to answer without moving his.

   People were putting their wands away, and Mr. Goyle swooped gracefully
   to the ground, looking rather confused. Some Hufflepuffs started over
   towards Mr. Goyle, but Harry shot them a desperately pleading look and
   they backed off.

   Harry walked toward Mr. Goyle and stopped when he was a few paces away,
   far enough apart that they couldn't reach each other.

   Slowly, deliberately, Harry sheathed his wand.

   Everyone else backed away.

   Harry swallowed. He knew in broad outline what he wanted to do, but it
   had to be done in such a way that no one understood what he'd done -

   "All right," Harry said loudly. "And now..." He took a deep breath and
   raised one hand, fingers ready to snap. There were gasps from anyone
   who'd heard about the pies, which was practically everyone. "I call
   upon the insanity of Hogwarts! Happy happy boom boom swamp swamp
   swamp!" And Harry snapped his fingers.

   A lot of people flinched.

   And nothing happened.

   Harry let the silence stretch on for a while, developing, until...

   "Um," someone said. "Is that it?"

   Harry looked at the boy who'd spoken. "Look in front of you. You see
   that patch of ground that looks barren, without any grass on it?"

   "Um, yeah," said the boy, a Gryffindor (Dean something?).

   "Dig it up."

   Now Harry was getting a lot of strange looks.

   "Er, why?" said Dean something.

   "Just do it," said Terry Boot in a weary voice. "No point asking why,
   trust me on this one."

   Dean something kneeled down and began to scoop away dirt.

   After a minute or so, Dean stood up again. "There's nothing there,"
   Dean said.

   Huh. Harry had been planning to go back in time and bury a treasure map
   that would lead to another treasure map that would lead to Neville's
   Remembrall which he would put there after getting it back from Mr.
   Goyle...

   Then Harry realised there was a much simpler way which didn't threaten
   the secret of Time-Turners quite as much.

   "Thanks, Dean!" Harry said loudly. "Ernie, would you look around on the
   ground where Neville fell and see if you can find Neville's
   Remembrall?"

   People looked even more confused.

   "Just do it," said Terry Boot. "He'll keep trying until something
   works, and the scary thing is that -"

   "Merlin!" gasped Ernie. He was holding up Neville's Remembrall. "It's
   here! Right where he fell!"

   "What?" cried Mr. Goyle. He looked down and saw...

   ...that he was still holding Neville's Remembrall.

   There was a rather long pause.

   "Er," said Dean something, "that's not possible, is it?"

   "It's a plot hole," said Harry. "I made myself weird enough to distract
   the universe for a moment and it forgot that Goyle had already picked
   up the Remembrall."

   "No, wait, I mean, that's totally not possible -"

   "Excuse me, are we all standing around here waiting to go flying on
   broomsticks? Yes we are. So shut up. Anyway, once I get my hands on
   Neville's Remembrall, the contest is over and Gregory Goyle has to
   relinquish all claim to the Remembrall he's holding and give it to me.
   Those were the terms, remember?" Harry stretched out a hand and
   beckoned Ernie. "Just roll it over here, since no one's supposed to get
   close to me, okay?"

   "Hold on!" shouted a Slytherin - Blaise Zabini, Harry wasn't likely to
   forget that name. "How do we know that's Neville's Remembrall? You
   could've just dropped another Remembrall there -"

   "The Slytherin is strong with this one," Harry said, smiling. "But you
   have my word that the one Ernie's holding is Neville's. No comment
   about the one Gregory Goyle's holding."

   Zabini spun to Draco. "Malfoy! You're not just going to let him get
   away with that -"

   "Shut up, you," rumbled Mr. Crabbe, standing behind Draco. "Mr. Malfoy
   doesn't need you to tell him what to do!"

   Good minion.

   "My bet was with Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy,"
   Harry said. "Not with you, Zabini. I have done what Mr. Malfoy said
   he'd like to see me do, and as for the judgment of the bet, I leave
   that up to Mr. Malfoy." Harry inclined his head towards Draco and
   raised his eyebrows slightly. That ought to allow Draco to save enough
   face.

   There was a pause.

   "You promise that actually is Neville's Remembrall?" Draco said.

   "Yes," Harry said. "That's the one that'll go back to Neville and it
   was his originally. And the one Gregory Goyle's holding goes to me."

   Draco nodded, looking decisive. "I won't question the word of the Noble
   House of Potter, then, no matter how strange that all was. And the
   Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy keeps its word as well. Mr.
   Goyle, give that to Mr. Potter -"

   "Hey!" Zabini said. "He hasn't won yet, he hasn't got his hands on -"

   "Catch, Harry!" said Ernie, and he tossed the Remembrall.

   Harry easily snapped the Remembrall out of the air, he'd always had
   good reflexes that way. "There," said Harry, "I win..."

   Harry trailed off. All conversation stopped.

   The Remembrall was glowing bright red in his hand, blazing like a
   miniature sun that cast shadows on the ground in broad daylight.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Thursday.

   If you wanted to be specific, 5:09pm on Thursday afternoon, in
   Professor McGonagall's office, after flying classes. (With an extra
   hour for Harry slipped in between.)

   Professor McGonagall sitting on her stool. Harry in the hot seat in
   front of her desk.

   "Professor," Harry said tightly, "Slytherin was pointing their wands at
   Hufflepuff, Gryffindor was pointing their wands at Slytherin, some
   idiot called wands out in Ravenclaw, and I had maybe five seconds to
   keep the whole thing from blowing sky-high! It was all I could think
   of!"

   Professor McGonagall's face was pinched and angry. "You are not to use
   the Time-Turner in that fashion, Mr. Potter! Is the concept of secrecy
   not something that you understand?"

   "They don't know how I did it! They just think I can do really weird
   things by snapping my fingers! I've done other weird stuff that can't
   be done with Time-Turners even, and I'll do more stuff like that, and
   this case won't even stand out! I had to do it, Professor!"

   "You did not have to do it!" snapped Professor McGonagall. "All you
   needed to do was get this anonymous Slytherin back on the ground and
   the wands put away! You could have challenged him to a game of
   Exploding Snap but no, you had to use the Time-Turner in a flagrant and
   unnecessary manner!"

   "It was all I could think of! I don't even know what Exploding Snap is,
   they wouldn't have accepted a game of chess and if I'd picked
   arm-wresting I would have lost!"

   "Then you should have picked wrestling!"

   Harry blinked. "But then I'd have lost -"

   Harry stopped.

   Professor McGonagall was looking very angry.

   "I'm sorry, Professor McGonagall," Harry said in a small voice. "I
   honestly didn't think of that, and you're right, I should have, it
   would have been brilliant if I had, but I just didn't think of that at
   all..."

   Harry's voice trailed off. It was suddenly apparent to him that he'd
   had a lot of other options. He could have asked Draco to suggest
   something, he could have asked the crowd... his use of the Time-Turner
   had been flagrant and unnecessary. There had been a giant space of
   possibilities, why had he picked that one?

   Because he'd seen a way to win. Win possession of an unimportant
   trinket that the teachers would've taken back from Mr. Goyle anyway.

   Intent to win. That was what had gotten him.

   "I'm sorry," Harry said again. "For my pride and my stupidity."

   Professor McGonagall wiped a hand across her forehead. Some of her
   anger seemed to dissipate. But her voice still came out very hard. "One
   more display like that, Mr. Potter, and you will be returning that
   Time-Turner. Do I make myself very clear?"

   "Yes," Harry said. "I understand and I'm sorry."

   "Then, Mr. Potter, you will be allowed to retain the Time-Turner for
   now. And considering the size of the debacle you did, in fact, avert, I
   will not deduct any points from Ravenclaw."

   Plus you couldn't explain why you'd deducted the points. But Harry
   wasn't dumb enough to say that out loud.

   "More importantly, why did the Remembrall go off like that?" Harry
   said. "Does it mean I've been Obliviated?"

   "That puzzles me as well," Professor McGonagall said slowly. "If it
   were that simple, I would think that the courts would use Remembralls,
   and they do not. I shall look into it, Mr. Potter." She sighed. "You
   can go now."

   Harry started to get up from his chair, then halted. "Um, sorry, I did
   have something else I wanted to tell you -"

   You could hardly see the flinch. "What is it, Mr. Potter?"

   "It's about Professor Quirrell -"

   "I'm sure, Mr. Potter, that it is nothing of importance." Professor
   McGonagall spoke the words in a great rush. "Surely you heard the
   Headmaster tell the students that you were not to bother us with any
   unimportant complaints about the Defence Professor?"

   Harry was rather confused. "But this could be important, yesterday I
   got this sudden sense of doom when -"

   "Mr. Potter! I have a sense of doom as well! And my sense of doom is
   suggesting that you must not finish that sentence!"

   Harry's mouth gaped open. Professor McGonagall had succeeded; Harry was
   speechless.

   "Mr. Potter," said Professor McGonagall, "if you have discovered
   anything that seems interesting about Professor Quirrell, please feel
   free not to share it with me or anyone else. Now I think you've taken
   up enough of my valuable time -"

   "This isn't like you!" Harry burst out. "I'm sorry but that just seems
   unbelievably irresponsible! From what I've heard there's some kind of
   jinx on the Defence position, and if you already know something's going
   to go wrong, I'd think you'd all be on your toes -"

   "Go wrong, Mr. Potter? I certainly hope not." Professor McGonagall's
   face was expressionless. "After Professor Blake was caught in a closet
   with no fewer than three fifth-year Slytherins last February, and a
   year before that, Professor Summers failed so completely as an educator
   that her students thought a boggart was a kind of furniture, it would
   be catastrophic if some problem with the extraordinarily competent
   Professor Quirrell came to my attention now, and I daresay most of our
   students would fail their Defence O.W.L.s and N.E.W.T.s."

   "I see," Harry said slowly, taking it all in. "So in other words,
   whatever's wrong with Professor Quirrell, you desperately don't want to
   know about it until the end of the school year. And since it's
   currently September, he could assassinate the Prime Minister on live
   television and get away with it so far as you're concerned."

   Professor McGonagall gazed at him unblinkingly. "I am certain that I
   could never be heard endorsing such a statement, Mr. Potter. At
   Hogwarts we strive to be proactive with respect to anything that
   threatens the educational attainment of our students."

   Such as first-year Ravenclaws who can't keep their mouths shut. "I
   believe I understand you completely, Professor McGonagall."

   "Oh, I doubt that, Mr. Potter. I doubt that very much." Professor
   McGonagall leaned forward, her face tightening again. "Since you and I
   have already discussed matters far more sensitive than these, I shall
   speak frankly. You, and you alone, have reported this mysterious sense
   of doom. You, and you alone, are a chaos magnet the likes of which I
   have never seen. After our little shopping trip to Diagon Alley, and
   then the Sorting Hat, and then today's little episode, I can well
   foresee that I am fated to sit in the Headmaster's office and hear some
   hilarious tale about Professor Quirrell in which you and you alone play
   a starring role, after which there will be no choice but to fire him. I
   am already resigned to it, Mr. Potter. And if this sad event takes
   place any earlier than the Ides of May, I will string you up by the
   gates of Hogwarts with your own intestines and pour fire beetles into
   your nose. Now do you understand me completely?"

   Harry nodded, his eyes very wide. Then, after a second, "What do I get
   if I can make it happen on the last day of the school year?"

   "Get out of my office!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   Thursday.

   There must have been something about Thursdays in Hogwarts.

   It was 5:32pm on Thursday afternoon, and Harry was standing next to
   Professor Flitwick, in front of the great stone gargoyle that guarded
   the entrance to the Headmaster's office.

   No sooner had he made it back from Professor McGonagall's office to the
   Ravenclaw study rooms than one of the students told him to report to
   Professor Flitwick's office, and there Harry had learned that
   Dumbledore wanted to speak to him.

   Harry, feeling rather apprehensive, had asked Professor Flitwick if the
   Headmaster had said what this was about.

   Professor Flitwick had shrugged in a helpless sort of way.

   Apparently Dumbledore had said that Harry was far too young to invoke
   the words of power and madness.

   Happy happy boom boom swamp swamp swamp? Harry had thought but not said
   aloud.

   "Please don't worry too much, Mr. Potter," squeaked Professor Flitwick
   from somewhere around Harry's shoulder level. (Harry was grateful for
   Professor Flitwick's gigantic puffy beard, it was hard getting used to
   a Professor who was not only shorter than him but spoke in a
   higher-pitched voice.) "Headmaster Dumbledore may seem a little odd, or
   a lot odd, or even extremely odd, but he has never hurt a student in
   the slightest, and I don't believe he ever will." Professor Flitwick
   gave Harry an encouraging smile. "Just keep that in mind at all times
   and you'll be sure not to panic!"

   This was not helping.

   "Good luck!" squeaked Professor Flitwick, and leaned over to the
   gargoyle and said something that Harry somehow failed to hear at all.
   (Of course, the password wouldn't be much good if you could hear
   someone saying it.) And the stone gargoyle walked aside with a very
   natural and ordinary movement that Harry found rather shocking, since
   the gargoyle still looked like solid, immovable stone the whole time.

   Behind the gargoyle was a set of slowly revolving spiral stairs. There
   was something disturbingly hypnotic about it, and even more disturbing
   was that revolving the spiral ought not to take you anywhere.

   "Up you go!" squeaked Flitwick.

   Harry rather nervously stepped onto the spiral, and found himself, for
   some reason that his brain couldn't seem to visualise at all, moving
   upwards.

   The gargoyle thudded back into place behind him, and the spiral stairs
   kept turning and Harry kept being higher up, and after a rather
   dizzying time, Harry found himself in front of an oak door with a brass
   griffin knocker.

   Harry reached out and turned the doorknob.

   The door swung open.

   And Harry saw the most interesting room he'd ever seen in his life.

   There were tiny metal mechanisms that whirred or ticked or slowly
   changed shape or emitted little puffs of smoke. There were dozens of
   mysterious fluids in dozens of oddly shaped containers, all bubbling,
   boiling, oozing, changing color, or forming into interesting shapes
   that vanished half a second after you saw them. There were things that
   looked like clocks with many hands, inscribed with numbers or in
   unrecognisable languages. There was a bracelet bearing a lenticular
   crystal that sparkled with a thousand colors, and a bird perched atop a
   golden platform, and a wooden cup filled with what looked like blood,
   and a statue of a falcon encrusted in black enamel. The wall was all
   hung with pictures of people sleeping, and the Sorting Hat was casually
   poised on a hatrack that was also holding two umbrellas and three red
   slippers for left feet.

   In the midst of all the chaos was a clean black oaken desk. Before the
   desk was an oaken stool. And behind the desk was a well-cushioned
   throne containing Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, who was
   adorned with a long silver beard, a hat like a squashed giant mushroom,
   and what looked to Muggle eyes like three layers of bright pink
   pyjamas.

   Dumbledore was smiling, and his bright eyes twinkled with a mad
   intensity.

   With some trepidation, Harry seated himself in front of the desk. The
   door swung shut behind him with a loud thunk.

   "Hello, Harry," said Dumbledore.

   "Hello, Headmaster," Harry replied. So they were on a first-name basis?
   Would Dumbledore now say to call him -

   "Please, Harry!" said Dumbledore. "Headmaster sounds so formal. Just
   call me Heh for short."

   "I'll be sure to, Heh," said Harry.

   There was a slight pause.

   "Do you know," said Dumbledore, "you're the first person who's ever
   taken me up on that?"

   "Ah..." Harry said. He tried to control his voice despite the sudden
   sinking feeling in his stomach. "I'm sorry, I, ah, Headmaster, you told
   me to do it so I did -"

   "Heh, please!" said Dumbledore cheerfully. "And there's no call to be
   so worried, I won't launch you out a window just because you make one
   mistake. I'll give you plenty of warnings first, if you're doing
   something wrong! Besides, what matters isn't how people talk to you,
   it's what they think of you."

   He's never hurt a student, just keep remembering that and you'll be
   sure not to panic.

   Dumbledore drew forth a small metal case and flipped it open, showing
   some small yellow lumps. "Sherbet lemon?" said the Headmaster.

   "Er, no thank you, Heh," said Harry. Does slipping a student LSD count
   as hurting them, or does that fall into the category of harmless fun?
   "You, um, said something about my being too young to invoke the words
   of power and madness?"

   "That you most certainly are!" Dumbledore said. "Thankfully the Words
   of Power and Madness were lost seven centuries ago and no one has the
   slightest idea what they are anymore. It was just a little remark."

   "Ah..." Harry said. He was aware that his mouth was hanging open. "Why
   did you call me here, then?"

   "Why?" Dumbledore repeated. "Ah, Harry, if I went around all day asking
   why I do things, I'd never have time to get a single thing done! I'm
   quite a busy person, you know."

   Harry nodded, smiling. "Yes, it was a very impressive list. Headmaster
   of Hogwarts, Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot, and Supreme Mugwump of
   the International Confederation of Wizards. Sorry to ask but I was
   wondering, is it possible to get more than six hours if you use more
   than one Time-Turner? Because it's pretty impressive if you're doing
   all that on just thirty hours a day."

   There was another slight pause, during which Harry went on smiling. He
   was a little apprehensive, actually a lot apprehensive, but once it had
   become clear that Dumbledore was deliberately messing with him,
   something within him absolutely refused to sit and take it like a
   defenceless lump.

   "I'm afraid Time doesn't like being stretched out too much," said
   Dumbledore after the slight pause, "and yet we ourselves seem to be a
   little too large for it, and so it's a constant struggle to fit our
   lives into Time."

   "Indeed," Harry said with grave solemnity. "That's why it's best to
   come to our points quickly."

   For a moment Harry wondered if he'd gone too far.

   Then Dumbledore chuckled. "Straight to the point it shall be." The
   Headmaster leaned forwards, tilting his squashed mushroom hat and
   brushing his beard against his desk. "Harry, this Monday you did
   something that should have been impossible even with a Time-Turner. Or
   rather, impossible with only a Time-Turner. Where did those two pies
   come from, I wonder?"

   A jolt of adrenaline shot through Harry. He'd done that using the Cloak
   of Invisibility, the one that had been given him in a Christmas box
   along with a note, and that note had said: If Dumbledore saw a chance
   to possess one of the Deathly Hallows he would never let it escape his
   grasp....

   "A natural thought," Dumbledore went on, "is that since none of the
   first-years present were able to cast such a spell, someone else was
   present, and yet unseen. And if no one could see them, why, it would be
   easy enough for them to throw the pies. One might further suspect that
   since you had a Time-Turner, you were the invisible one; and that since
   the spell of Disillusionment is far beyond your current abilities, you
   had an invisibility cloak." Dumbledore smiled conspiratorially. "Am I
   on the right track so far, Harry?"

   Harry was frozen. He had the feeling that an outright lie would not at
   all be wise, and possibly not the least bit helpful, and he couldn't
   think of anything else to say.

   Dumbledore waved a friendly hand. "Don't worry, Harry, you haven't done
   anything wrong. Invisibility cloaks aren't against the rules - I
   suppose they're rare enough that no one ever got around to putting them
   on the list. But really I was wondering something else entirely."

   "Oh?" Harry said in the most normal voice he could manage.

   Dumbledore's eyes shone with enthusiasm. "You see, Harry, after you've
   been through a few adventures you tend to catch the hang of these
   things. You start to see the pattern, hear the rhythm of the world. You
   begin to harbour suspicions before the moment of revelation. You are
   the Boy-Who-Lived, and somehow an invisibility cloak made its way into
   your hands only four days after you discovered our magical Britain.
   Such cloaks are not for sale in Diagon Alley, but there is one which
   might find its own way to a destined wearer. And so I cannot help but
   wonder if by some strange chance you have found not just an
   invisibility cloak, but the Cloak of Invisibility, one of the three
   Deathly Hallows and reputed to hide the wearer from the gaze of Death
   himself." Dumbledore's gaze was bright and eager. "May I see it,
   Harry?"

   Harry swallowed. There was a full flood of adrenaline in his system now
   and it was entirely useless, this was the most powerful wizard in the
   world and there was no way he could make it out the door and there was
   nowhere in Hogwarts for him to hide if he did, he was about to lose the
   Cloak that had been passed down through the Potters for who knew how
   long -

   Slowly Dumbledore leaned back into his high chair. The bright light had
   gone out of his eyes, and he looked puzzled and a little sorrowful.
   "Harry," said Dumbledore, "if you don't want to, you can just say no."

   "I can?" Harry croaked.

   "Yes, Harry," said Dumbledore. His voice sounded sad now, and worried.
   "It seems that you're afraid of me, Harry. May I ask what I've done to
   earn your distrust?"

   Harry swallowed. "Is there some way you can swear a binding magical
   oath that you won't take my cloak?"

   Dumbledore shook his head slowly. "Unbreakable Vows are not to be used
   so lightly. And besides, Harry, if you did not already know the spell,
   you would have only my word that the spell was binding. Yet surely you
   realise that I do not need your permission to see the Cloak. I am
   powerful enough to draw it forth myself, mokeskin pouch or no."
   Dumbledore's face was very grave. "But this I will not do. The Cloak is
   yours, Harry. I will not seize it from you. Not even to look at for
   just a moment, unless you decide to show it to me. That is a promise
   and an oath. Should I need to prohibit you from using it on the school
   grounds, I will require you to go to your vault at Gringotts and store
   it there."

   "Ah..." Harry said. He swallowed hard, trying to calm the flood of
   adrenaline and think reasonably. He took the mokeskin pouch off his
   belt. "If you really don't need my permission... then you have it."
   Harry held out the pouch to Dumbledore, and bit down hard on his lip,
   sending that signal to himself in case he was Obliviated afterwards.

   The old wizard reached into the pouch, and without saying any word of
   retrieval, drew forth the Cloak of Invisibility.

   "Ah," breathed Dumbledore. "I was right..." He poured the shimmering
   black velvet mesh through his hand. "Centuries old, and still as
   perfect as the day it was made. We have lost much of our art over the
   years, and now I cannot make such a thing myself, no one can. I can
   feel the power of it like an echo in my mind, like a song forever being
   sung without anyone to hear it..." The wizard looked up from the Cloak.
   "Do not sell it," he said, "do not give it to anyone as a possession.
   Think twice before you show it to anyone, and ponder three times again
   before you reveal it is a Deathly Hallow. Treat it with respect, for
   this is indeed a Thing of Power."

   For a moment Dumbledore's face grew wistful...

   ...and then he handed the Cloak back to Harry.

   Harry put it back in his pouch.

   Dumbledore's face was grave once more. "May I ask again, Harry, how you
   came to distrust me so?"

   Suddenly Harry felt rather ashamed.

   "There was a note with the Cloak," Harry said in a small voice. "It
   said that you would try to take the Cloak from me, if you knew. I don't
   know who left the note, though, I really don't."

   "I... see," Dumbledore said slowly. "Well, Harry, I won't impugn the
   motives of whoever left you that note. Who knows but that they
   themselves may have had the best of good intentions? They did give you
   the Cloak, after all."

   Harry nodded, impressed by Dumbledore's charity, and abashed at the
   sharp contrast with his own attitude.

   The old wizard went on. "But you and I are both gamepieces of the same
   color, I think. The boy who finally defeated Voldemort, and the old man
   who held him off long enough for you to save the day. I will not hold
   your caution against you, Harry, we must all do our best to be wise. I
   will only ask that you think twice and ponder three times again, the
   next time someone tells you to distrust me."

   "I'm sorry," Harry said. He felt wretched at this point, he'd just told
   off Gandalf essentially, and Dumbledore's kindness was only making him
   feel worse. "I shouldn't have distrusted you."

   "Alas, Harry, in this world..." The old wizard shook his head. "I
   cannot even say you were unwise. You did not know me. And in truth
   there are some at Hogwarts who you would do well not to trust. Perhaps
   even some you call friends."

   Harry swallowed. That sounded rather ominous. "Like who?"

   Dumbledore stood up from his chair, and began examining one of his
   instruments, a dial with eight hands of varying length.

   After a few moments, the old wizard spoke again. "He probably seems to
   you quite charming," said Dumbledore. "Polite - to you at least.
   Well-spoken, maybe even admiring. Always ready with a helping hand, a
   favour, a word of advice -"

   "Oh, Draco Malfoy!" Harry said, feeling rather relieved that it wasn't
   Hermione or something. "Oh no, no no no, you've got it all wrong, he's
   not turning me, I'm turning him."

   Dumbledore froze where he was peering at the dial. "You're what?"

   "I'm going to turn Draco Malfoy from the Dark Side," Harry said. "You
   know, make him a good guy."

   Dumbledore straightened and turned to Harry. He was wearing one of the
   most astonished expressions Harry had ever seen on anyone, let alone
   someone with a long silver beard. "Are you certain," said the old
   wizard after a moment, "that he is ready to be redeemed? I fear that
   whatever goodness you think you see within him is only wishful thinking
   - or worse, a lure, a bait -"

   "Er, not likely," Harry said. "I mean if he's trying to disguise
   himself as a good guy he's incredibly bad at it. This isn't a question
   of Draco coming up to me and being all charming and me deciding that he
   must have a hidden core of goodness deep down. I selected him for
   redemption specifically because he's the heir to House Malfoy and if
   you had to pick one person to redeem, it would obviously be him."

   Dumbledore's left eye twitched. "You intend to sow seeds of love and
   kindness in Draco Malfoy's heart because you expect Malfoy's heir to
   prove valuable to you?"

   "Not just to me!" Harry said indignantly. "To all of magical Britain,
   if this works out! And he'll have a happier and mentally healthier life
   himself! Look, I don't have enough time to turn everyone away from the
   Dark Side and I've got to ask where the Light can gain the most
   advantage the fastest -"

   Dumbledore started laughing. Laughing a lot harder than Harry would
   expect, almost howling. It seemed positively undignified. An ancient
   and powerful wizard ought to chuckle in deep booming tones, not laugh
   so hard he was gasping for breath. Harry had once literally fallen out
   of his chair while watching the Marx Brothers movie Duck Soup, and that
   was how hard Dumbledore was laughing now.

   "It's not that funny," Harry said after a while. He was starting to
   worry about Dumbledore's sanity again.

   Dumbledore got himself under control again with a visible effort. "Ah,
   Harry, one symptom of the disease called wisdom is that you begin
   laughing at things that no one else thinks is funny, because when
   you're wise, Harry, you start getting the jokes!" The old wizard wiped
   tears away from his eyes. "Ah, me. Ah, me. Oft evil will shall evil mar
   indeed, in very deed."

   Harry's brain took a moment to place the familiar words... "Hey, that's
   a Tolkien quote! Gandalf says that!"

   "Theoden, actually," said Dumbledore.

   "You're Muggleborn?" Harry said in shock.

   "I'm afraid not," said Dumbledore, smiling again. "I was born seventy
   years before that book was published, dear child. But it seems that my
   Muggleborn students tend to think alike in certain ways. I have
   accumulated no fewer than twenty copies of The Lord of the Rings and
   three sets of Tolkien's entire collected works, and I treasure every
   one of them." Dumbledore drew his wand and held it up and struck a
   pose. "You cannot pass! How does that look?"

   "Ah," Harry said in something approaching complete brain shutdown, "I
   think you're missing a Balrog." And the pink pyjamas and squashed
   mushroom hat were not helping in the slightest.

   "I see." Dumbledore sighed and glumly sheathed the wand in his belt. "I
   fear there have been precious few Balrogs in my life of late. Nowadays
   it's all meetings of the Wizengamot where I must try desperately to
   prevent any work from getting done, and formal dinners where foreign
   politicians compete to see who can be the most obstinate fool. And
   being mysterious at people, knowing things I have no way of knowing,
   making cryptic statements which can only be understood in hindsight,
   and all the other small ways in which powerful wizards amuse themselves
   after they have left the part of the pattern that allows them to be
   heroes. Speaking of which, Harry, I have a certain something to give
   you, something which belonged to your father."

   "You do?" said Harry. "Gosh, who would have figured."

   "Yes indeed," said Dumbledore. "I suppose it is a little predictable,
   isn't it?" His face turned solemn. "Nonetheless..."

   Dumbledore went back to his desk and sat down, pulling out one of the
   drawers as he did so. He reached in using both arms, and, straining
   slightly, pulled a rather large and heavy-looking object out of the
   drawer, which he then deposited on his oaken desk with a huge thunk.

   "This," Dumbledore said, "was your father's rock."

   Harry stared at it. It was light gray, discolored, irregularly shaped,
   sharp-edged, and very much a plain old ordinary large rock. Dumbledore
   had deposited it so that it rested on the widest available
   cross-section, but it still wobbled unstably on his desk.

   Harry looked up. "This is a joke, right?"

   "It is not," said Dumbledore, shaking his head and looking very
   serious. "I took this from the ruins of James and Lily's home in
   Godric's Hollow, where also I found you; and I have kept it from then
   until now, against the day when I could give it to you."

   In the mixture of hypotheses that served as Harry's model of the world,
   Dumbledore's insanity was rapidly rising in probability. But there was
   still a substantial amount of probability allocated to other
   alternatives... "Um, is it a magical rock?"

   "Not so far as I know," said Dumbledore. "But I advise you with the
   greatest possible stringency to keep it close about your person at all
   times."

   All right. Dumbledore was probably insane but if he wasn't... well, it
   would be just too embarrassing to get in trouble from ignoring the
   advice of the inscrutable old wizard. That had to be like #4 on the
   list of the Top 100 Obvious Failure Modes.

   Harry stepped forward and put his hands on the rock, trying to find
   some angle from which to lift it without cutting himself. "I'll put it
   in my pouch, then."

   Dumbledore frowned. "That may not be close enough to your person. And
   what if your mokeskin pouch is lost, or stolen?"

   "You think I should just carry a big rock everywhere I go?"

   Dumbledore gave Harry a serious look. "That might prove wise."

   "Ah..." Harry said. It looked rather heavy. "I'd think the other
   students would tend to ask me questions about that."

   "Tell them I ordered you to do it," said Dumbledore. "No one will
   question that, since they all think I'm insane." His face was still
   perfectly serious.

   "Er, to be honest if you go around ordering your students to carry
   large rocks I can kind of see why people would think that."

   "Ah, Harry," said Dumbledore. The old wizard gestured, a sweep of one
   hand that seemed to take in all the mysterious instruments around the
   room. "When we are young we believe that we know everything, and so we
   believe that if we see no explanation for something, then no
   explanation exists. When we are older we realise that the whole
   universe works by a rhythm and a reason, even if we ourselves do not
   know it. It is only our own ignorance which appears to us as insanity."

   "Reality is always lawful," said Harry, "even if we don't know the
   law."

   "Precisely, Harry," said Dumbledore. "To understand this - and I see
   that you do understand it - is the essence of wisdom."

   "So... why do I have to carry this rock exactly?"

   "I can't think of a reason, actually," said Dumbledore.

   "...you can't."

   Dumbledore nodded. "But just because I can't think of a reason doesn't
   mean there is no reason."

   The instruments ticked on.

   "Okay," said Harry, "I'm not even sure if I should be saying this, but
   that is simply not the correct way to deal with our admitted ignorance
   of how the universe works."

   "It isn't?" said the old wizard, looking surprised and disappointed.

   Harry had the feeling this conversation was not going to work out in
   his favour, but he carried on regardless. "No. I don't even know if
   that fallacy has an official name, but if I had to make one up myself,
   it would be 'privileging the hypothesis' or something like that. How
   can I put this formally... um... suppose you had a million boxes, and
   only one of the boxes contained a diamond. And you had a box full of
   diamond-detectors, and each diamond-detector always went off in the
   presence of a diamond, and went off half the time on boxes that didn't
   have a diamond. If you ran twenty detectors over all the boxes, you'd
   have, on average, one false candidate and one true candidate left. And
   then it would just take one or two more detectors before you were left
   with the one true candidate. The point being that when there are lots
   of possible answers, most of the evidence you need goes into just
   locating the true hypothesis out of millions of possibilities -
   bringing it to your attention in the first place. The amount of
   evidence you need to judge between two or three plausible candidates is
   much smaller by comparison. So if you just jump ahead without evidence
   and promote one particular possibility to the focus of your attention,
   you're skipping over most of the work. Like, you live in a city where
   there are a million people, and there's a murder, and a detective says,
   well, we've got no evidence at all, so have we considered the
   possibility that Mortimer Snodgrass did it?"

   "Did he?" said Dumbledore.

   "No," said Harry. "But later it turns out that the murderer had black
   hair, and Mortimer has black hair, so everyone's like, ah, looks like
   Mortimer did it after all. So it's unfair to Mortimer for the police to
   promote him to their attention without having good reasons already in
   hand to suspect him. When there are lots of possibilities, most of the
   work goes into just locating the true answer - starting to pay
   attention to it. You don't need proof, or the sort of official evidence
   that scientists or courts demand, but you need some sort of hint, and
   that hint has to discriminate that particular possibility from the
   millions of others. Otherwise you can't just pluck the right answer out
   of thin air. You can't even pluck a possibility worth thinking about
   out of thin air. And there's got to be a million other things I could
   do besides carrying around my father's rock. Just because I'm ignorant
   about the universe doesn't mean that I'm unsure about how I should
   reason in the presence of my uncertainty. The laws for thinking with
   probabilities are no less iron than the laws that govern old-fashioned
   logic, and what you just did is not allowed." Harry paused. "Unless, of
   course, you have some hint you're not mentioning."

   "Ah," said Dumbledore. He tapped his cheek, looking thoughtful. "An
   interesting argument, certainly, but doesn't it break down at the point
   where you make an analogy between a million potential murderers only
   one of whom committed the murder, and taking one out of many possible
   courses of action, when many possible courses of action may all be
   wise? I do not say that carrying your father's rock is the one best
   possible course of action, only that it is wiser to do than not."

   Dumbledore once again reached into the same desk drawer he had accessed
   earlier, this time seeming to root around inside - at least his arm
   seemed to be moving. "I will remark," Dumbledore said while Harry was
   still trying to sort out how to reply to this completely unexpected
   rejoinder, "that it is a common misconception of Ravenclaws that all
   the smart children are Sorted there, leaving none for other Houses.
   This is not so; being Sorted to Ravenclaw indicates that you are driven
   by your desire to know things, which is not at all the same quality as
   being intelligent." The wizard was smiling as he bent over the drawer.
   "Nonetheless, you do seem rather intelligent. Less like an ordinary
   young hero and more like a young mysterious ancient wizard. I think I
   may have been taking the wrong approach with you, Harry, and that you
   may be able to understand things that few others could grasp. So I
   shall be daring, and offer you a certain other heirloom."

   "You don't mean..." gasped Harry. "My father... owned another rock?"

   "Excuse me," said Dumbledore, "I am still older and more mysterious
   than you and if there are any revelations to be made then I will do the
   revealing, thank you... oh, where is that thing!" Dumbledore reached
   down further into the desk drawer, and still further. His head and
   shoulders and whole torso disappeared inside until only his hips and
   legs were sticking out, as though the desk drawer was eating him.

   Harry couldn't help but wonder just how much stuff was in there and
   what the complete inventory would look like.

   Finally Dumbledore rose back up out of the drawer, holding the
   objective of his search, which he set down on the desk alongside the
   rock.

   It was a used, ragged-edged, worn-spined textbook: Intermediate Potion
   Making by Libatius Borage. There was a picture of a smoking vial on the
   cover.

   "This," Dumbledore intoned, "was your mother's fifth-year Potions
   textbook."

   "Which I am to carry with me at all times," said Harry.

   "Which holds a terrible secret. A secret whose revelation could prove
   so disastrous that I must ask you to swear - and I do require you to
   swear it seriously, Harry, whatever you may think of all this - never
   to tell anyone or anything else."

   Harry considered his mother's fifth-year Potions textbook, which,
   apparently, held a terrible secret.

   The problem was that Harry did take that oaths like that very
   seriously. Any vow was an Unbreakable Vow if made by the right sort of
   person.

   And...

   "I'm feeling thirsty," Harry said, "and that is not at all a good
   sign."

   Dumbledore entirely failed to ask any questions about this cryptic
   statement. "Do you swear, Harry?" said Dumbledore. His eyes gazed
   intently into Harry's. "Otherwise I cannot tell you."

   "Yes," said Harry. "I swear." That was the trouble with being a
   Ravenclaw. You couldn't refuse an offer like that or your curiosity
   would eat you alive, and everyone else knew it.

   "And I swear in turn," said Dumbledore, "that what I am about to tell
   you is the truth."

   Dumbledore opened the book, seemingly at random, and Harry leaned in to
   see.

   "Do you see these notes," Dumbledore said in a voice so low it was
   almost a whisper, "written in the margins of the book?"

   Harry squinted slightly. The yellowing pages seemed to be describing
   something called a potion of eagle's splendour, many of the ingredients
   being items that Harry didn't recognise at all and whose names didn't
   appear to derive from English. Scrawled in the margin was a handwritten
   annotation saying, I wonder what would happen if you used Thestral
   blood here instead of blueberries? and immediately beneath was a reply
   in different handwriting, You'd get sick for weeks and maybe die.

   "I see them," said Harry. "What about them?"

   Dumbledore pointed to the second scrawl. "The ones in this
   handwriting," he said, still in that low voice, "were written by your
   mother. And the ones in this handwriting," moving his finger to
   indicate the first scrawl, "were written by me. I would turn myself
   invisible and sneak into her dorm room while she was sleeping. Lily
   thought one of her friends was writing them and they had the most
   amazing fights."

   That was the exact point at which Harry realised that the Headmaster of
   Hogwarts was, in fact, crazy.

   Dumbledore was looking at him with a serious expression. "Do you
   understand the implications of what I have just told you, Harry?"

   "Ehhh..." Harry said. His voice seemed to be stuck. "Sorry... I... not
   really..."

   "Ah well," said Dumbledore, and sighed. "I suppose your cleverness has
   limits after all, then. Shall we all just pretend I didn't say
   anything?"

   Harry rose from his chair, wearing a fixed smile. "Of course," Harry
   said. "You know it's actually getting rather late in the day and I'm a
   bit hungry, so I should be going down to dinner, really" and Harry made
   a beeline for the door.

   The doorknob entirely failed to turn.

   "You wound me, Harry," said Dumbledore's voice in quiet tones that were
   coming from right behind him. "Do you not at least realise that what I
   have told you is a sign of trust?"

   Harry slowly turned around.

   In front of him was a very powerful and very insane wizard with a long
   silver beard, a hat like a squashed giant mushroom, and wearing what
   looked to Muggle eyes like three layers of bright pink pyjamas.

   Behind him was a door that didn't seem to be working at the moment.

   Dumbledore was looking rather saddened and weary, like he wanted to
   lean on a wizard's staff he didn't have. "Really," said Dumbledore,
   "you try anything new instead of following the same pattern every time
   for a hundred and ten years, and people all start running away." The
   old wizard shook his head in sorrow. "I'd hoped for better from you,
   Harry Potter. I'd heard that your own friends also think you mad. I
   know they are mistaken. Will you not believe the same of me?"

   "Please open the door," Harry said, his voice trembling. "If you ever
   want me to trust you again, open the door."

   There was the sound behind him of a door opening.

   "There were more things I planned to say to you," Dumbledore said, "and
   if you leave now, you will not know what they were."

   Sometimes Harry absolutely hated being a Ravenclaw.

   He's never hurt a student, said Harry's Gryffindor side. Just keep
   remembering that and you'll be sure not to panic. You're not going to
   run away just because things are getting interesting, are you?

   You can't just walk out on the Headmaster! said the Hufflepuff part.
   What if he starts deducting House points? He could make your school
   life very difficult if he decides he doesn't like you!

   And a piece of himself which Harry didn't much like but couldn't quite
   manage to silence was pondering the potential advantages of being one
   of the few friends of this mad old wizard who also happened to be
   Headmaster, Chief Warlock, and Supreme Mugwump. And unfortunately his
   inner Slytherin seemed to be much better than Draco at turning people
   to the Dark Side, because it was saying things like poor fellow, he
   looks like he needs someone to talk to, doesn't he? and you wouldn't
   want such a powerful man to end up trusting someone less virtuous,
   would you? and I wonder what sort of incredible secrets Dumbledore
   could tell you if, you know, you became friends with him and even I bet
   he's got a reaallly interesting book collection.

   You're all a bunch of lunatics, Harry thought at the entire assemblage,
   but he'd been unanimously outvoted by every component part of himself.

   Harry turned, took a step towards the open door, reached out, and
   deliberately closed it again. It was a costless sacrifice given that he
   was staying anyway, Dumbledore could control his movements regardless,
   but maybe it would impress Dumbledore.

   When Harry turned back around he saw that the powerful insane wizard
   was once more smiling and looking friendly. That was good, maybe.

   "Please don't do that again," Harry said. "I don't like being trapped."

   "I am sorry about that, Harry," said Dumbledore in what sounded like
   tones of sincere apology. "But it would have been terribly unwise to
   let you leave without your father's rock."

   "Of course," Harry said. "It wasn't reasonable of me to expect the door
   to open before I put the quest items in my inventory."

   Dumbledore smiled and nodded.

   Harry went over to the desk, twisted his mokeskin pouch around to the
   front of his belt, and, with some effort, managed to heave up the rock
   in his eleven-year-old arms and feed it in.

   He could actually feel the weight slowly diminishing as the Widening
   Lip charm ate the rock, and the burp which followed was rather noisy
   and had a distinctly complaining sound to it.

   His mother's fifth-year Potions textbook (which held a secret that was
   in fact pretty terrible) followed shortly after.

   And then Harry's inner Slytherin made a sly suggestion for ingratiating
   himself with the Headmaster, which, unfortunately, had been perfectly
   pitched in such a way as to gain the support of the majority Ravenclaw
   faction.

   "So," Harry said. "Um. As long as I'm hanging around, I don't suppose
   you would like to give me a bit of a tour of your office? I'm a bit
   curious as to what some of these things are," and that was his
   understatement for the month of September.

   Dumbledore gazed at him, and then nodded with a slight grin. "I'm
   flattered by your interest," said Dumbledore, "but I'm afraid there
   isn't much to say." Dumbledore took a step closer to the wall and
   pointed to a painting of a sleeping man. "These are portraits of past
   Headmasters of Hogwarts." He turned and pointed to his desk. "This is
   my desk." He pointed to his chair. "This is my chair -"

   "Excuse me," Harry said, "actually I was wondering about those." Harry
   pointed to a small cube that was softly whispering "blorple...
   blorple... blorple".

   "Oh, the little fiddly things?" said Dumbledore. "They came with the
   Headmaster's office and I have absolutely no idea what most of them do.
   Although this dial with the eight hands counts the number of, let's
   call them sneezes, by left-handed witches within the borders of France,
   you would not believe how much work it took to nail that down. And this
   one with the golden wibblers is my own invention and Minerva is never,
   ever going to figure out what it's doing."

   Dumbledore took a step over to the hatrack while Harry was still
   processing this. "Here of course we have the Sorting Hat, I believe the
   two of you have met. It told me that it was never again to be placed on
   your head under any circumstances. You're only the fourteenth student
   in history it's said that about, Baba Yaga was another one and I'll
   tell you about the other twelve when you're older. This is an umbrella.
   This is another umbrella." Dumbledore took another few steps and turned
   around, now smiling quite broadly. "And of course, most people who come
   to my office want to see Fawkes."

   Dumbledore was standing next to the bird on the golden platform.

   Harry came over, rather puzzled. "This is Fawkes?"

   "Fawkes is a phoenix," said Dumbledore. "Very rare, very powerful
   magical creatures."

   "Ah..." Harry said. He lowered his head and stared into the tiny, beady
   black eyes, which showed not the slightest sign of power or
   intelligence.

   "Ahhh..." Harry said again.

   He was pretty sure he recognised the shape of the bird. It was pretty
   hard to miss.

   "Umm..."

   Say something intelligent! Harry's mind roared at itself. Don't just
   stand there sounding like a gibbering moron!

   Well what the heck am I supposed to say? Harry's mind fired back.

   Anything!

   You mean, anything besides "Fawkes is a chicken" -

   Yes! Anything but that!

   "So, ah, what sort of magic do phoenixes do, then?"

   "Their tears have the power to heal," Dumbledore said. "They are
   creatures of fire, and move between all places as easily as fire may
   extinguish itself in one place and be kindled in another. The
   tremendous strain of their innate magic ages their bodies quickly, and
   yet they are as close to undying as any creature that exists in this
   world, for whenever their bodies fail them they immolate themselves in
   a burst of fire and leave behind a hatchling, or sometimes an egg."
   Dumbledore came closer and inspected the chicken, frowning. "Hm...
   looking a little peaky there, I'd say."

   By the time this statement registered fully in Harry's mind, the
   chicken was already on fire.

   The chicken's beak opened, but it didn't have time for so much as a
   single caw before it began to wither and char. The blaze was brief,
   intense, and entirely self-contained; there was no smell of burning.

   And then the fire died down only seconds after it had begun, leaving
   behind a tiny, pathetic heap of ashes on the golden platform.

   "Don't look so horrified, Harry!" said Dumbledore. "Fawkes hasn't been
   hurt." Dumbledore's hand dipped into a pocket, and then the same hand
   sifted through the ashes and turned up a small yellowish egg. "Look,
   here's an egg!"

   "Oh... wow... amazing..."

   "But now we really should get on with things," Dumbledore said. Leaving
   the egg behind in the ashes of the chicken, he returned to his throne
   and seated himself. "It's almost time for dinner, after all, and we
   wouldn't want to have to use our Time-Turners."

   There was a violent power struggle going on in the Government of Harry.
   Slytherin and Hufflepuff had switched sides after seeing the Headmaster
   of Hogwarts set fire to a chicken.

   "Yes, things," said Harry's lips. "And then dinner."

   You're sounding like a gibbering moron again observed Harry's Internal
   Critic.

   "Well," Dumbledore said. "I fear I have a confession to make, Harry. A
   confession and an apology."

   "Apologies are good" that doesn't even make sense! What am I talking
   about?

   The old wizard sighed deeply. "You may not still think so after
   understanding what I have to say. I'm afraid, Harry, that I've been
   manipulating you your entire life. It was I who consigned you to the
   care of your wicked stepparents -"

   "My stepparents aren't wicked!" blurted Harry. "My parents, I mean!"

   "They aren't?" Dumbledore said, looking surprised and disappointed.
   "Not even a little wicked? That doesn't fit the pattern..."

   Harry's inner Slytherin screamed at the top of its mental lungs, SHUT
   UP YOU IDIOT HE'LL TAKE YOU AWAY FROM THEM!

   "No, no," said Harry, lips frozen in a ghastly grimace, "I was just
   trying to spare your feelings, they're actually very wicked..."

   "They are?" Dumbledore leaned forward, gazing at him intently. "What do
   they do?"

   Talk fast "they, ah, I have to do dishes and wash problems and they
   don't let me read a lot of books and -"

   "Ah, good, that's good to hear," said Dumbledore, leaning back again.
   He smiled in a sad sort of way. "I apologise for that, then. Now where
   was I? Ah, yes. I'm sorry to say, Harry, that I am responsible for
   virtually everything bad that has ever happened to you. I know that
   this will probably make you very angry."

   "Yes, I'm very angry!" said Harry. "Grrr!"

   Harry's Internal Critic promptly awarded him the All-Time Award for the
   Worst Acting in the History of Ever.

   "And I just wanted you to know," Dumbledore said, "I wanted to tell you
   as early as possible, in case something happens to one of us later,
   that I am truly, truly sorry. For everything that has already happened,
   and everything that will."

   Moisture glistened in the old wizard's eyes.

   "And I'm very angry!" said Harry. "So angry that I want to leave right
   now unless you've got anything else to say!"

   Just GO before he sets you on fire! shrieked Slytherin, Hufflepuff, and
   Gryffindor.

   "I understand," said Dumbledore. "One last thing then, Harry. You are
   not to attempt the forbidden door on the third-floor corridor. There's
   no possible way you could get through all the traps, and I wouldn't
   want to hear that you'd been hurt trying. Why, I doubt that you could
   so much as open the first door, since it's locked and you don't know
   the spell Alohomora -"

   Harry spun around and bolted for the exit at top speed, the doorknob
   turned agreeably in his hand and then he was racing down the spiral
   stairs even as they turned, his feet almost stumbling over themselves,
   in just a moment he was at the bottom and the gargoyle was walking
   aside and Harry fired out of the stairwell like a cannonball.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Harry Potter.

   There must have been something about Harry Potter.

   It was Thursday for everyone, after all, and yet this sort of thing
   didn't seem to happen to anyone else.

   It was 6:21pm on Thursday afternoon when Harry Potter, firing out of
   the stairwell like a cannonball and accelerating at top speed, ran
   directly into Minerva McGonagall as she was turning a corner on her way
   to the Headmaster's office.

   Thankfully neither of them were much hurt. As had been explained to
   Harry a little earlier in the day - back when he was refusing to go
   anywhere near a broomstick again - Quidditch needed solid iron Bludgers
   just to stand a decent chance of injuring the players, since wizards
   tended to be a lot more resistant than Muggles to impacts.

   Harry and Professor McGonagall did both end up on the floor, and the
   parchments she had been carrying went all over the corridor.

   There was a terrible, terrible pause.

   "Harry Potter," breathed Professor McGonagall from where she was lying
   on the floor right next to Harry. Her voice rose to nearly a shriek.
   "What were you doing in the Headmaster's office?"

   "Nothing!" squeaked Harry.

   "Were you talking about the Defence Professor?"

   "No! Dumbledore called me up there and he gave me this big rock and
   said it was my father's and I should carry it everywhere!"

   There was another terrible pause.

   "I see," said Professor McGonagall, her voice a little calmer. She
   stood up, brushed herself off, and glared at the scattered parchments,
   which jumped into a neat stack and scurried back against the corridor
   wall as though to hide from her gaze. "My sympathies, Mr. Potter, and I
   apologise for doubting you."

   "Professor McGonagall," Harry said. His voice was wavering. He pushed
   himself off the floor, stood, and looked up at her trustworthy, sane
   face. "Professor McGonagall..."

   "Yes, Mr. Potter?"

   "Do you think I should?" Harry said in a small voice. "Carry my
   father's rock everywhere?"

   Professor McGonagall sighed. "That is between you and the Headmaster,
   I'm afraid." She hesitated. "I will say that ignoring the Headmaster
   completely is almost never wise. I am sorry to hear of your dilemma,
   Mr. Potter, and if there's any way I can help you with whatever you
   decide to do -"

   "Um," Harry said. "Actually I was thinking that once I know how, I
   could Transfigure the rock into a ring and wear it on my finger. If you
   could teach me how to sustain a Transfiguration -"

   "It is good that you asked me first," Professor McGonagall said, her
   face growing a bit stern. "If you lost control of the Transfiguration
   the reversal would cut off your finger and probably rip your hand in
   half. And at your age, even a ring is too large a target for you to
   sustain indefinitely without it being a serious drain on your magic.
   But I can have a ring forged for you with a setting for a jewel, a
   small jewel, in contact with your skin, and you can practice sustaining
   a safe subject, like a marshmallow. When you have kept it up
   successfully, even in your sleep, for a full month, I will allow you to
   Transfigure, ah, your father's rock..." Professor McGonagall's voice
   trailed off. "Did the Headmaster really -"

   "Yes. Ah... um..."

   Professor McGonagall sighed. "That's a bit strange even for him." She
   stooped and picked up the stack of parchments. "I'm sorry about this,
   Mr. Potter. I apologise again for mistrusting you. But now it's my own
   turn to see the Headmaster."

   "Ah... good luck, I guess. Er..."

   "Thank you, Mr. Potter."

   "Um..."

   Professor McGonagall walked over to the gargoyle, inaudibly spoke the
   password, and stepped through into the revolving spiral stairs. She
   began to rise out of sight, and the gargoyle started back -

   "Professor McGonagall the Headmaster set fire to a chicken!"

   "He wha-"
   Chapter 18: Dominance Hierarchies

   Any sufficiently advanced J. K. Rowling is indistinguishable from
   magic.
     __________________________________________________________________

   "That does sound like the sort of thing I would do, doesn't it?"
     __________________________________________________________________

   It was breakfast time on Friday morning. Harry took another huge bite
   out of his toast and then tried to remind his brain that scarfing his
   breakfast wouldn't actually get him into the dungeons any faster.
   Anyway they had a full hour of study time between breakfast and the
   start of Potions.

   But dungeons! In Hogwarts! Harry's imagination was already sketching
   the chasms, narrow bridges, torchlit sconces, and patches of glowing
   moss. Would there be rats? Would there be dragons?

   "Harry Potter," said a quiet voice from behind him.

   Harry looked over his shoulder and found himself beholding Ernie
   Macmillan, smartly dressed in yellow-trimmed robes and looking a little
   worried.

   "Neville thought I should warn you," Ernie said in a low voice. "I
   think he's right. Be careful of the Potions Master in our session
   today. The older Hufflepuffs told us that Professor Snape can be really
   nasty to people he doesn't like, and he doesn't like most people who
   aren't Slytherins. If you say anything smart to him it... it could be
   really bad for you, from what I've heard. Just keep your head down and
   don't give him any reason to notice you."

   There was a pause as Harry processed this, and then he lifted his
   eyebrows. (Harry wished he could raise just one eyebrow, like Spock,
   but he'd never been able to manage.) "Thanks," Harry said. "You
   might've just saved me a lot of trouble."

   Ernie nodded, and turned to go back to the Hufflepuff table.

   Harry resumed eating his toast.

   It was around four bites afterward that someone said "Pardon me," and
   Harry turned around to see an older Ravenclaw, looking a little worried
   -

   Some time later, Harry was finishing up his third plate of rashers.
   (He'd learned to eat heavily at breakfast. He could always eat lightly
   at lunch if he didn't end up using the Time-Turner.) And there was yet
   another voice from behind him saying "Harry?"

   "Yes," Harry said wearily, "I'll try not to draw Professor Snape's
   attention -"

   "Oh, that's hopeless," said Fred.

   "Completely hopeless," said George.

   "So we had the house elves bake you a cake," said Fred.

   "We're going to put one candle on it for every point you lose for
   Ravenclaw," said George.

   "And have a party for you at the Gryffindor table during lunch," said
   Fred.

   "We hope that'll cheer you up afterward," finished George.

   Harry swallowed his last bite of rasher and turned around. "All right,"
   said Harry. "I wasn't going to ask this after Professor Binns, I really
   wasn't, but if Professor Snape is that awful why hasn't he been fired?"

   "Fired?" said Fred.

   "You mean, let go?" said George.

   "Yes," Harry said. "It's what you do to bad teachers. You fire them.
   Then you hire a better teacher instead. You don't have unions or tenure
   here, right?"

   Fred and George were frowning in much the same way that hunter-gatherer
   tribal elders might frown if you tried to tell them about calculus.

   "I don't know," said Fred after a while. "I never thought about that."

   "Me neither," said George.

   "Yeah," said Harry, "I get that a lot. See you at lunch, guys, and
   don't blame me if there aren't any candles on that cake."

   Fred and George both laughed, as if Harry had said something funny, and
   bowed to him and headed back toward Gryffindor.

   Harry turned back to the breakfast table and grabbed a cupcake. His
   stomach already felt full, but he had a feeling this morning might use
   a lot of calories.

   As he ate his cupcake, Harry thought of the worst teacher he'd met so
   far, Professor Binns of History. Professor Binns was a ghost. From what
   Hermione had said about ghosts, it didn't seem likely that they were
   fully self-aware. There were no famous discoveries made by ghosts, or
   much of any original work, no matter who they'd been in life. Ghosts
   tended to have trouble remembering the current century. Hermione had
   said they were like accidental portraits, impressed into the
   surrounding matter by a burst of psychic energy accompanying a wizard's
   sudden death.

   Harry had run into some stupid teachers during his abortive forays into
   standard Muggle education - his father had been a lot pickier when it
   came to selecting grad students as tutors, of course - but History
   class was the first time he'd encountered a teacher who literally
   wasn't sentient.

   And it showed, too. Harry had given up after five minutes and started
   reading a textbook. When it became clear that "Professor Binns" wasn't
   going to object, Harry had also reached into his pouch and gotten
   earplugs.

   Did ghosts not require a salary? Was that it? Or was it literally
   impossible to fire anyone in Hogwarts even if they died?

   Now it seemed that Professor Snape was going about being absolutely
   awful to everyone who wasn't a Slytherin and it hadn't even occurred to
   anyone to terminate his contract.

   And the Headmaster had set fire to a chicken.

   "Excuse me," came a worried voice from behind him.

   "I swear," Harry said without turning around, "this place is almost
   eight and a half percent as bad as what Dad says about Oxford."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Harry stamped down the stone corridors, looking affronted, annoyed, and
   infuriated all at once.

   "Dungeons!" Harry hissed. "Dungeons! These are not dungeons! This is a
   basement! A basement!"

   Some of the Ravenclaw girls gave him odd looks. The boys were all used
   to him by now.

   It seemed that the level in which the Potions classroom was located was
   called the "dungeons" for no better reason than that it was below
   ground and slightly colder than the main castle.

   In Hogwarts! In Hogwarts! Harry had been waiting his whole life and now
   he was still waiting and if there was anywhere on the face of the Earth
   that had decent dungeons it ought to be Hogwarts! Was Harry going to
   have to build his own castle if he wanted to see one little bottomless
   abyss?

   A short time later they got to the actual Potions classroom and Harry
   cheered up considerably.

   The Potions classroom had strange preserved creatures floating in huge
   jars on shelves that covered every centimeter of wall space between the
   closets. Harry had gotten far enough along in his reading now that he
   could actually identify some of the creatures, like the Zabriskan
   Fontema. Albeit the fifty-centimeter spider looked like an Acromantula
   but it was too small to be one. He'd tried asking Hermione, but she
   hadn't seemed very interested in looking anywhere near where he was
   pointing.

   Harry was looking at a large dust ball with eyes and feet when the
   assassin swept into the room.

   That was the first thought that crossed Harry's mind when he saw
   Professor Severus Snape. There was something quiet and deadly about the
   way the man stalked between the children's desks. His robes were
   unkempt, his hair spotted and greasy. There was something about him
   that seemed reminiscent of Lucius, although the two of them looked
   nothing remotely alike, and you got the impression that where Lucius
   would kill you with flawless elegance, this man would simply kill you.

   "Sit down," said Professor Severus Snape. "Now."

   Harry and a few other children who had been standing around talking to
   each other scrambled for desks. Harry had planned on ending up next to
   Hermione but somehow he found himself sitting down in the nearest empty
   desk next to Justin Finch-Fletchley (it was a Doubles session,
   Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff) which put him two desks to the left of
   Hermione.

   Severus seated himself behind the teacher's desk, and without the
   slightest transition or introduction, said, "Hannah Abbott."

   "Here," said Hannah in a somewhat trembling voice.

   "Susan Bones."

   "Present."

   And so it went, no one daring to say a word in edgewise, until:

   "Ah, yes. Harry Potter. Our new... celebrity."

   "The celebrity is present, sir."

   Half the class flinched, and some of the smarter ones suddenly looked
   like they wanted to run out the door while the classroom was still
   there.

   Severus smiled in an anticipatory sort of way and called the next name
   on his list.

   Harry gave a mental sigh. That had happened way too fast for him to do
   anything about it. Oh well. Clearly this man already didn't like him,
   for whatever reason. And when Harry thought about it, better by far
   that this Potions professor should pick on him rather than, say,
   Neville or Hermione. Harry was a lot better able to defend himself.
   Yep, probably all for the best.

   When full attendance had been taken, Severus swept his gaze over the
   full class. His eyes were as empty as a night sky without stars.

   "You are here," Severus said in a quiet voice which the students at
   back strained to hear, "to learn the subtle science and exact art of
   potionmaking. As there is little foolish wand-waving here, many of you
   will hardly believe this is magic. I don't expect you will really
   understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its
   shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep through
   human veins," this in a rather caressing, gloating tone, "bewitching
   the mind, ensnaring the senses," this was just getting creepier and
   creepier. "I can teach you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper
   death - if you aren't as great a pack of fools as I usually have to
   teach."

   Severus somehow seemed to notice the look of skepticism on Harry's
   face, or at least his eyes suddenly jumped to where Harry was sitting.

   "Potter!" snapped the Potions professor. "What would I get if I added
   powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?"

   Harry blinked. "Was that in Magical Drafts and Potions?" he said. "I
   just finished reading it, and I don't remember anything which used
   wormwood -"

   Hermione's hand went up and Harry shot her a glare which caused her to
   raise her hand even higher.

   "Tut, tut," Severus said silkily. "Fame clearly isn't everything."

   "Really?" Harry said. "But you just told us you'd teach us how to
   bottle fame. Say, how does that work, exactly? You drink it and turn
   into a celebrity?"

   Three-quarters of the class flinched.

   Hermione's hand was dropping slowly back down. Well, that wasn't
   surprising. She might be his rival, but she wasn't the sort of girl who
   would play along after it became clear that the professor was
   deliberately trying to humiliate him.

   Harry was trying hard to keep control of his temper. The first
   rejoinder that had crossed his mind was 'Abracadabra'.

   "Let's try again," said Severus. "Potter, where would you look if I
   told you to find me a bezoar?"

   "That's not in the textbook either," Harry said, "but in one Muggle
   book I read that a trichinobezoar is a mass of solidified hair found in
   a human stomach, and Muggles used to believe it would cure any poison
   -"

   "Wrong," Severus said. "A bezoar is found in the stomach of a goat, it
   is not made of hair, and it will cure most poisons but not all."

   "I didn't say it would, I said that was what I read in one Muggle book
   -"

   "No one here is interested in your pathetic Muggle books. Final try.
   What is the difference, Potter, between monksblood and wolfsbane?"

   That did it.

   "You know," Harry said icily, "in one of my quite fascinating Muggle
   books, they describe a study in which people managed to make themselves
   look very smart by asking questions about random facts that only they
   knew. Apparently the onlookers only noticed that the askers knew and
   the answerers didn't, and failed to adjust for the unfairness of the
   underlying game. So, Professor, can you tell me how many electrons are
   in the outermost orbital of a carbon atom?"

   Severus's smile widened. "Four," he said. "It is a useless fact which
   no one should bother writing down, however. And for your information,
   Potter, asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is
   known as the Draught of Living Death. As for monkshood and wolfsbane,
   they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of aconite, as you
   would know if you had read One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi.
   Thought you didn't need to open the book before coming, eh, Potter? All
   the rest of you should be copying that down so that you will not be as
   ignorant as him." Severus paused, looking quite pleased with himself.
   "And that will be... five points? No, let us make it an even ten points
   from Ravenclaw for backchat."

   Hermione gasped, along with a number of others.

   "Professor Severus Snape," Harry bit out. "I know of nothing which I
   have done to earn your enmity. If there is some problem you have with
   me which I do not know about, I suggest we -"

   "Shut up, Potter. Ten more points from Ravenclaw. The rest of you, open
   your books to page 3."

   There was only a slight, only a very faint burning sensation in the
   back of Harry's throat, and no moisture at all in his eyes. If crying
   was not an effective strategy for destroying this Potions professor
   then there was no point in crying.

   Slowly, Harry sat up very straight. All his blood seemed to have been
   drained away and replaced with liquid nitrogen. He knew he'd been
   trying to keep his temper but he couldn't seem to remember why.

   "Harry," whispered Hermione frantically from two desks over, "stop,
   please, it's all right, we won't count it -"

   "Talking in class, Granger? Three -"

   "So," said a voice colder than zero Kelvin, "how does one go about
   filing a formal complaint against an abusive professor? Does one talk
   to the Deputy Headmistress, write a letter to the Board of Governors...
   would you care to explain how it works?"

   The class was utterly frozen.

   "Detention for one month, Potter," Severus said, smiling even more
   broadly.

   "I decline to recognize your authority as a teacher and I will not
   serve any detention you give."

   People stopped breathing.

   Severus's smile vanished. "Then you will be -" his voice stopped short.

   "Expelled, were you about to say?" Harry, on the other hand, was now
   smiling thinly. "But then you seemed to doubt your ability to carry out
   the threat, or fear the consequences if you did. I, on the other hand,
   neither doubt nor fear the prospect of finding a school with less
   abusive professors. Or perhaps I should hire private tutors, as is my
   accustomed practice, and be taught at my full learning speed. I have
   enough money in my vault. Something about bounties on a Dark Lord I
   defeated. But there are teachers at Hogwarts who I rather like, so I
   think it will be easier if I find some way to get rid of you instead."

   "Get rid of me?" Severus said, now also smiling thinly. "What an
   amusing conceit. How do you suppose you will do that, Potter?"

   "I understand there have been a number of complaints about you from
   students and their parents," a guess but a safe one, "which leaves only
   the question of why you're not already gone. Is Hogwarts too
   financially strapped to afford a real Potions professor? I could chip
   in, if so. I'm sure they could find a better class of teacher if they
   offered double your current salary."

   Two poles of ice radiated freezing winter across the classroom.

   "You will find," Severus said softly, "that the Board of Governers is
   not the slightest bit sympathetic to your offer."

   "Lucius..." Harry said. "That's why you're still here. Perhaps I should
   chat with Lucius about that. I believe he desires to meet with me. I
   wonder if I have anything he wants?"

   Hermione frantically shook her head. Harry noticed out of the corner of
   his eye, but his attention was all on Severus.

   "You are a very foolish boy," Severus said. He wasn't smiling at all,
   now. "You have nothing that Lucius values more than my friendship. And
   if you did, I have other allies." His voice grew hard. "And I find it
   increasingly unlikely that you were not Sorted into Slytherin. How was
   it that you managed to stay out of my House? Ah, yes, because the
   Sorting Hat claimed it was joking. For the first time in recorded
   history. What were you really chatting about with the Sorting Hat,
   Potter? Did you have something that it wanted?"

   Harry stared into Severus's cold gaze and remembered that the Sorting
   Hat had warned him not to meet anyone's eyes while thinking about -
   Harry dropped his gaze to Severus's desk.

   "You seem oddly reluctant to look me in the eyes, Potter!"

   A shock of sudden understanding - "So it was you the Sorting Hat was
   warning me about!"

   "What?" said Severus's voice, sounding genuinely surprised, though of
   course Harry didn't look at his face.

   Harry got up out of his desk.

   "Sit down, Potter," said an angry voice from somewhere he wasn't
   looking.

   Harry ignored it, and looked around the classroom. "I have no intention
   of letting one unprofessional teacher ruin my time at Hogwarts," Harry
   said with deadly calm. "I think I'll take my leave of this class, and
   either hire a tutor to teach me Potions while I'm here, or if the Board
   is really that locked up, learn over the summer. If any of you decide
   that you don't care to be bullied by this man, my sessions will be open
   to you."

   "Sit down, Potter!"

   Harry strode across the room and grasped the doorknob.

   It didn't turn.

   Harry slowly turned around, and caught a glimpse of Severus smiling
   nastily before he remembered to look away.

   "Open this door."

   "No," said Severus.

   "You are making me feel threatened," said a voice so icy it didn't
   sound like Harry's at all, "and that is a mistake."

   Severus's voice laughed. "What do you intend to do about it, little
   boy?"

   Harry took six long strides forward away from the door, until he was
   standing near the back row of desks.

   Then Harry drew himself upright and raised his right hand in one
   terrible motion, fingers poised to snap.

   Neville screamed and dived under his desk. Other children shrank back
   or instinctively raised their arms to shield themselves.

   "Harry don't!" shrieked Hermione. "Whatever you were going to do to
   him, don't do it!"

   "Have you all gone mad?" barked Severus's voice.

   Slowly, Harry lowered his hand. "I wasn't going to hurt him, Hermione,"
   Harry said, his voice a little lower. "I was just going to blow up the
   door."

   Though now that Harry remembered it, you weren't supposed to
   Transfigure things that were to be burned, which meant that going back
   in time afterward and getting Fred or George to Transfigure some
   carefully measured amount of explosives might not actually have been
   such a good idea...

   "Silencio," said Severus's voice.

   Harry tried to say "What?" and found that no sound was coming out.

   "This has become ridiculous. I think you've been allowed to get
   yourself in enough trouble for one day, Potter. You are the most
   disruptive and unruly student I have ever seen, and I don't recall how
   many points Ravenclaw has right now, but I'm sure I can manage to wipe
   them all out. Ten points from Ravenclaw. Ten points from Ravenclaw. Ten
   points from Ravenclaw! Fifty points from Ravenclaw! Now sit down and
   watch the rest of the class take their lesson!"

   Harry put his hand into his pouch and tried to say 'marker' but of
   course no words came out. For one brief moment that stopped him; and
   then it occurred to Harry to spell out M-A-R-K-E-R using finger
   motions, which worked. P-A-D and he had a pad of paper. Harry strode
   over to an empty desk, not the one he'd originally sat down in, and
   scrawled a brief message. He tore off that sheet of paper, put away the
   marker and pad in a pocket of his robes for quicker access, and held up
   his message, not to Snape, but to the rest of the class.

   I'M LEAVING
   DOES ANYONE ELSE
   NEED TO GET OUT?

   "You're insane, Potter," Severus said with cold contempt.

   Aside from that, no one spoke.

   Harry swept an ironic bow to the teacher's desk, walked over to the
   wall, and with one smooth motion yanked open a closet door, stepped in,
   and slammed the door shut behind him.

   There was the muffled sound of someone snapping his fingers, and then
   nothing.

   In the classroom, students looked at each other in puzzlement and fear.

   The Potions Master's face was now completely enraged. He crossed the
   room in terrible strides and yanked open the closet door.

   The closet was empty.
     __________________________________________________________________

   One hour earlier, Harry listened from inside the closed closet. There
   was no sound from outside, and no point in taking risks either.

   C-L-O-A-K, his fingers spelled out.

   Once he was invisible, he very carefully and slowly cracked open the
   closet door and peeked out. No one seemed to be in the classroom.

   The door wasn't locked.

   It was when Harry was outside the dangerous place and inside the
   hallway, safely invisible, that some of the anger drained away and he
   realized what he'd just done.

   What he'd just done.

   Harry's invisible face was frozen in absolute horror.

   He'd antagonized a teacher three orders of magnitude beyond anything
   he'd ever managed before. He'd threatened to walk out of Hogwarts and
   might have to follow through on it. He'd lost all the points Ravenclaw
   had and then he'd used the Time-Turner...

   His imagination showed him his parents yelling at him after he was
   expelled, Professor McGonagall disappointed in him, and it was just too
   painful and he couldn't bear it and he couldn't think of any way to
   save himself -

   The thought that Harry allowed himself to think was that if getting
   angry had gotten him into all this trouble, then maybe when he was
   angry he'd think of a way out, things seemed clearer somehow when he
   was angry.

   And the thought that Harry didn't let himself think was that he just
   couldn't face this future if he wasn't angry.

   So he cast his thoughts back and remembered the burning humiliation -

   Tut, tut. Fame clearly isn't everything.

   Ten points from Ravenclaw for backchat.

   The calming cold washed back through his veins like a wave reflected
   and returning from some breaker, and Harry let out his breath.

   Okay. Back to being sane now.

   He was actually feeling a bit disappointed in his non-angry self for
   collapsing like that and wanting only to get out of trouble. Professor
   Severus Snape was everyone's problem. Normal-Harry had forgotten that
   and wished for a way to protect himself. And let all the other victims
   go hang? The question wasn't how to protect himself, the question was
   how to destroy this Potions professor.

   So this is my dark side, is it? Bit of a prejudiced term that, my light
   side seems more selfish and cowardly, not to mention confused and
   panicky.

   And now that he was thinking clearly, it was equally clear what to do
   next. He'd already given himself an extra hour to prepare, and could
   get up to five hours more if required...
     __________________________________________________________________

   Minerva McGonagall waited in the Headmaster's office.

   Dumbledore sat in his padded throne behind his desk, dressed in four
   layers of formal lavender robes. Minerva sat in a chair before him,
   opposite Severus in another chair. Facing the three of them was an
   empty wooden stool.

   They were waiting for Harry Potter.

   Harry, Minerva thought despairingly, you promised you wouldn't bite any
   teachers!

   And in her mind she could see very clearly the reply, Harry's angry
   face and his outraged response: I said I wouldn't bite anyone who
   didn't bite me first!

   There was a knock at the door.

   "Come in!" Dumbledore called.

   The door swept open, and Harry Potter entered. Minerva almost gasped
   out loud. The boy looked cool, collected, and utterly in control of
   himself.

   "Good mor-" Harry's voice suddenly cut off. His jaw dropped.

   Minerva tracked Harry's gaze, and she saw that Harry was staring at
   Fawkes where the phoenix sat on its golden perch. Fawkes fluttered his
   bright red-golden wings like the flickering of a flame, and dipped his
   head in a measured nod to the boy.

   Harry turned to stare at Dumbledore.

   Dumbledore winked at him.

   Minerva felt she was missing something.

   Sudden uncertainty crossed Harry's face. His coolness wavered. Fear
   showed in his eyes, then anger, and then the boy was calm again.

   A chill went down Minerva's spine. Something was not right here.

   "Please sit down," said Dumbledore. His face was now serious once more.

   Harry sat.

   "So, Harry," said Dumbledore. "I've heard one report of this day from
   Professor Snape. Would you care to tell me what happened in your own
   words?"

   Harry's gaze flicked dismissively to Severus. "It's not complicated,"
   said the boy, smiling thinly. "He tried bullying me the way he's been
   bullying every non-Slytherin in the school since the day Lucius foisted
   him off on you. As for the other details, I request a private
   conversation with you concerning them. A student who is reporting
   abusive behavior from a professor can hardly be expected to speak
   frankly in front of that same professor, after all."

   This time Minerva couldn't stop herself from gasping out loud.

   Severus simply laughed.

   And the Headmaster's face grew grave. "Mr. Potter," the Headmaster
   said, "one does not speak of a Hogwarts professor in such terms. I fear
   that you labor under a terrible misapprehension. Professor Severus
   Snape has my fullest confidence, and serves Hogwarts at my own behest,
   not Lucius Malfoy's."

   There was silence for a few moments.

   When the boy spoke again his voice was icy. "Am I missing something
   here?"

   "Quite a number of things, Mr. Potter," said the Headmaster. "You
   should understand, to start with, that the purpose of this meeting is
   to discuss how to discipline you for the events of this morning."

   "This man has terrorized your school for years. I spoke to students and
   collected stories to make sure there would be enough for a newspaper
   campaign to rally the parents against him. Some of the younger students
   cried while they told me. I almost cried when I heard them! You allowed
   this abuser to run free? You did this to your students? Why?"

   Minerva swallowed a lump in her throat. She'd - thought that,
   sometimes, but somehow she'd never quite -

   "Mr. Potter," said the Headmaster, his voice now stern, "this meeting
   is not about Professor Snape. It is about you and your disregard for
   school discipline. Professor Snape has suggested, and I have agreed,
   that three full months of detention will be appropriate -"

   "Declined," Harry said icily.

   Minerva was speechless.

   "This is not a request, Mr. Potter," the Headmaster said. The full,
   entire force of the wizard's gaze was turned on the boy. "This is your
   punishme-"

   "You will explain to me why you allowed this man to hurt the children
   placed in your care, and if your explanation is not sufficient then I
   will begin my newspaper campaign with you as the target."

   Minerva's body swayed with the force of that blow, with the sheer raw
   lese majeste.

   Even Severus looked shocked.

   "That, Harry, would be most extremely unwise," Dumbledore said slowly.
   "I am the primary piece opposing Lucius on the gameboard. For you to do
   such a thing would strengthen him greatly, and I did not think that was
   your chosen side."

   The boy was still for a long moment.

   "This conversation grows private," Harry said. His hand flicked in
   Severus's direction. "Send him away."

   Dumbledore shook his head. "Harry, did I not tell you that Severus
   Snape has my fullest confidence?"

   The boy's face showed the shock of it. "This man's bullying makes you
   vulnerable! I am not the only one who could start a newspaper campaign
   against you! This is insane! Why are you doing this?"

   Dumbledore sighed. "I'm sorry, Harry. It has to do with things that you
   are not, at this time, ready to hear."

   The boy stared at Dumbledore. Then he turned to look at Severus. Then
   back to Dumbledore again.

   "It is insanity," the boy said slowly. "You haven't reined him in
   because you think he's part of the pattern. That Hogwarts needs an evil
   Potions Master to be a proper magical school, just as it needs a ghost
   to teach History."

   "That does sound like the sort of thing I would do, doesn't it?" said
   Dumbledore, smiling.

   "Unacceptable," Harry said flatly. His gaze was now cold and dark. "I
   will not tolerate bullying or abuse. I had considered many possible
   ways of dealing with this problem, but I will make it simple. Either
   this man goes, or I do."

   Minerva gasped again. Something strange flickered in Severus's eyes.

   Now Dumbledore's gaze was also growing cold. "Expulsion, Mr. Potter, is
   the final threat which may be used against a student. It is not
   customarily used as a threat by students against the Headmaster. This
   is the best magical school in the entire world, and an education here
   is not an opportunity given to everyone. Are you under the impression
   that Hogwarts cannot get along without you?"

   And Harry sat there, smiling thinly.

   Sudden horror dawned on Minerva. Surely Harry wouldn't -

   "You forget," Harry said, "that you're not the only one who can see
   patterns. This grows private. Now send him -" Harry flicked a hand at
   Severus again, and then stopped in mid-sentence and mid-gesture.

   Minerva could see it on Harry's face, the moment when he remembered.

   She'd told him, after all.

   "Mr. Potter," said the Headmaster, "once again, Severus Snape has my
   fullest confidence."

   "You told him," whispered the boy. "You utter fool."

   Dumbledore didn't react to the insult. "Told him what?"

   "That the Dark Lord is alive."

   "What in Merlin's name are you on about, Potter?" cried Severus in
   tones of sheer astonishment and outrage.

   Harry glanced briefly at him, smiling grimly. "Oh, so we are a
   Slytherin, then," Harry said. "I was starting to wonder."

   And then there was silence.

   Finally Dumbledore spoke. His voice was mild. "Harry, what are you
   talking about?"

   "I'm sorry, Albus," Minerva whispered.

   Severus and Dumbledore turned to look at her.

   "Professor McGonagall didn't tell me," said Harry's voice, swiftly and
   less calm than it had been. "I guessed. I told you, I can see the
   patterns too. I guessed, and she controlled her reaction just as
   Severus did. But her control fell a shade short of perfection, and I
   could tell it was control, not genuine."

   "And I told him," said Minerva, her voice trembling a little, "that
   you, and I, and Severus were the only ones who knew."

   "Which she did as a concession to prevent me from simply going around
   asking questions, as I threatened to do if she didn't talk," Harry
   said. The boy chuckled briefly. "I really should have gotten one of you
   alone and told you that she told me everything, to see if you let
   anything slip. Probably wouldn't have worked, but would have been worth
   a shot." The boy smiled again. "Threat's still on the table and I do
   expect to be briefed fully at some point."

   Severus was giving her a look of utter contempt. Minerva raised her
   chin and bore it. She knew it was deserved.

   Dumbledore leaned back in his padded throne. His eyes were as cold as
   anything Minerva had seen from him since the day his brother died. "And
   you threaten to abandon us to Voldemort if we do not comply with your
   wishes."

   Harry's voice was razor-sharp. "I regret to inform you that you are not
   the center of the universe. I'm not threatening to walk out on magical
   Britain. I'm threatening to walk out on you. I am not a meek little
   Frodo. This is my quest and if you want in you will play by my rules."

   Dumbledore's face was still cold. "I am beginning to doubt your
   suitability as the hero, Mr. Potter."

   Harry's return gaze was equally icy. "I am beginning to doubt your
   suitability as my Gandalf, Mr. Dumbledore. Boromir was at least a
   plausible mistake. What is this Nazgul doing in my Fellowship?"

   Minerva was completely lost. She looked at Severus, to see if he was
   following this, and she saw that Severus had turned his face away from
   Harry's field of vision and was smiling.

   "I suppose," Dumbledore said slowly, "that from your perspective it is
   a reasonable question. So, Mr. Potter, if Professor Snape is to leave
   you alone henceforth, will that be the last time this issue arises, or
   will I find you here every week with a new demand?"

   "Leave me alone?" Harry's voice was outraged. "I am not his only victim
   and certainly not the most vulnerable! Have you forgotten how
   defenseless children are? How much they hurt? Henceforth Severus will
   treat every student of Hogwarts with appropriate and professional
   courtesy, or you will find another Potions Master, or you will find
   another hero!"

   Dumbledore started laughing. Full-throated, warm, humorous laughter, as
   if Harry had just performed a comic dance in front of him.

   Minerva didn't dare move. Her eyes flickered and she saw that Severus
   was equally motionless.

   Harry's visage grew even colder. "You mistake me, Headmaster, if you
   think that this is a joke. This is not a request. This is your
   punishment."

   "Mr. Potter -" Minerva said. She didn't even know what she was going to
   say. She simply couldn't let that go by.

   Harry made a shushing gesture at her and continued to speak to
   Dumbledore. "And if that seems impolite to you," Harry said, his voice
   now a little less hard, "it seemed no less impolite when you said it to
   me. You would not say such a thing to anyone who you considered a real
   human being instead of a subordinate child, and I will treat you with
   just the same courtesy as you treat me -"

   "Oh, indeed, in very deed, this is my punishment if ever there was one!
   Of course you're in here blackmailing me to save your fellow students,
   not to save yourself! I can't imagine why I would have thought
   otherwise!" Dumbledore was now laughing even harder. He pounded his
   fist on the desk three times.

   Harry's gaze grew uncertain. His face turned toward her, addressing her
   for the first time. "Excuse me," Harry said. His voice seemed to be
   wavering. "Does he need to take his medication or something?"

   "Ah..." Minerva had no idea what she could possibly say.

   "Well," said Dumbledore. He wiped away tears that had formed in his
   eyes. "Pardon me. I'm sorry for the interruption. Please continue with
   the blackmail."

   Harry opened his mouth, then closed it again. He now seemed a little
   unsteady. "Ah... he's also to stop reading students' minds."

   "Minerva," Severus said, his voice deadly, "you -"

   "Sorting Hat warned me," said Harry.

   "What?"

   "Can't say anything else. Anyway I think that's it. I'm done."

   Silence.

   "Now what?" Minerva said, when it became apparent that no one else was
   going to say anything.

   "Now what?" Dumbledore echoed. "Why, now the hero wins, of course."

   "What?" said Severus, Minerva, and Harry.

   "Well, he certainly seems to have backed us into a corner," Dumbledore
   said, smiling happily. "But Hogwarts does need an evil Potions Master,
   or it just wouldn't be a proper magical school, now would it? So how
   about if Professor Snape is only awful toward students in their fifth
   year and higher?"

   "What?" said all three of them again.

   "If it's the most vulnerable victims about whom you're concerned. Maybe
   you're right, Harry. Maybe I have forgotten over the decades what it's
   like to be a child. So let's compromise. Severus will continue to
   unfairly award points to Slytherin and impose lax discipline on his
   House, and he will be awful to non-Slytherin students in their fifth
   year and higher. To others he will be scary, but not abusive. He will
   promise to only read minds when the safety of a student requires it.
   Hogwarts will have its evil Potions Master, and the most vulnerable
   victims, as you put it, will be safe."

   Minerva McGonagall was as shocked as she'd ever been in her life. She
   glanced uncertainly at Severus, whose face had been left completely
   neutral, as though he couldn't decide what sort of expression he ought
   to be wearing.

   "I suppose that is acceptable," Harry said. His voice sounded a bit
   odd.

   "You can't be serious," Severus said, his voice as expressionless as
   his face.

   "I am very much in favor of this," Minerva said slowly. She was so much
   in favor that her heart was pounding wildly beneath her robes. "But
   what could we possibly tell the students? They might not have
   questioned this while Severus was... being awful to everyone, but -"

   "Harry can tell the other students that he discovered a terrible secret
   of Severus's and did a bit of blackmail," said Dumbledore. "It's true,
   after all; he discovered that Severus was reading minds, and he
   certainly did blackmail us."

   "This is insanity!" exploded Severus.

   "Bwah ha ha!" said Dumbledore.

   "Ah..." said Harry uncertainly. "And if anyone asks me why fifth years
   and above got shafted? I wouldn't blame them for being irate, and that
   part wasn't exactly my idea -"

   "Tell them," said Dumbledore, "that it wasn't you who suggested the
   compromise, that it was all you could get. And then refuse to say
   anything more. That, too, is true. There's an art to it, you'll pick it
   up with practice."

   Harry nodded slowly. "And the points he took from Ravenclaw?"

   "They must not be given back."

   It was Minerva who said it.

   Harry looked at her.

   "I'm sorry, Mr. Potter," she said. She was sorry, but it had to be
   done. "There must be some consequences for your misbehavior or this
   school will fall to pieces."

   Harry shrugged. "Acceptable," he said flatly. "But in the future
   Severus will not strike at my House connections by taking points from
   me, nor will he waste my valuable time with detentions. Should he feel
   that my behavior requires correction, he may communicate his concerns
   to Professor McGonagall."

   "Harry," Minerva said, "will you continue to submit to school
   discipline, or are you to be above the law now, as Severus was?"

   Harry looked at her. Something warm touched his gaze, briefly before it
   was quashed. "I will continue to be an ordinary student to every member
   of the staff who is not insane or evil, provided that they do not come
   under pressure from others who are." Harry glanced briefly at Severus,
   then turned back to Dumbledore. "Leave Minerva alone, and I'll be a
   regular Hogwarts student in her presence. No special privileges or
   immunities."

   "Beautiful," Dumbledore said sincerely. "Spoken like a true hero."

   "And," she said, "Mr. Potter must publicly apologize for his actions of
   today."

   Harry gave her another look. This one was a bit skeptical.

   "The discipline of the school has been gravely injured by your actions,
   Mr. Potter," Minerva said. "It must be restored."

   "I think, Professor McGonagall, that you considerably overestimate the
   importance of what you call school discipline, as compared to having
   History taught by a live teacher or not torturing your students.
   Maintaining the current status hierarchy and enforcing its rules seems
   ever so much more wise and moral and important when you are on the top
   and doing the enforcing than when you are on the bottom, and I can cite
   studies to this effect if required. I could go on for several hours
   about this point, but I will leave it at that."

   Minerva shook her head. "Mr. Potter, you underestimate the importance
   of discipline because you are not in need of it yourself -" She paused.
   That hadn't come out right, and Severus, Dumbledore, and even Harry
   were giving her strange looks. "To learn, I mean. Not every child can
   learn in the absence of authority. And it is the other children who
   will be hurt, Mr. Potter, if they see your example as one to be
   followed."

   Harry's lips curved into a twisted smile. "The first and last resort is
   the truth. The truth is that I shouldn't have gotten angry, I shouldn't
   have disrupted the class, I shouldn't have done what I did, and I set a
   bad example for everyone. The truth is also that Severus Snape behaved
   in a fashion unbecoming a Hogwarts professor, and that from now on he
   will be more mindful of the injured feelings of students in their
   fourth year and under. The two of us could both get up and speak the
   truth. I could live with that."

   "In your dreams, Potter!" spat Severus.

   "After all," said Harry, smiling grimly, "if the students see that
   rules are for everyone... for professors too, not just for poor
   helpless students who get nothing but suffering out of the system...
   why, the positive effects on school discipline should be tremendous."

   There was a brief pause, and then Dumbledore chuckled. "Minerva is
   thinking that you're righter than you have any right to be."

   Harry's gaze jerked away from Dumbledore, down to the floor. "Are you
   reading her mind?"

   "Common sense is often mistaken for Legilimency," said Dumbledore. "I
   shall talk over this matter with Severus, and no apology will be
   required from you unless he apologizes as well. And now I declare this
   matter concluded, at least until lunchtime." He paused. "Although,
   Harry, I'm afraid that Minerva wished to speak with you about an
   additional matter. And that is not the result of any pressure on my
   part. Minerva, if you would?"

   Minerva rose from her chair and almost fell. There was too much
   adrenaline in her blood, her heart was beating too fast.

   "Fawkes," said Dumbledore, "accompany her, please."

   "I don't -" she started to say.

   Dumbledore shot her a look, and she fell silent.

   The phoenix soared across the room like a smooth tongue of flame
   leaping out, and landed on her shoulder. She felt the warmth through
   her robes, all through her body.

   "Please follow me, Mr. Potter," she said, firmly now, and they left
   through the door.
     __________________________________________________________________

   They stood on the rotating stairs, descending in silence.

   Minerva didn't know what to say. She didn't know this person who stood
   beside her.

   And Fawkes began to croon.

   It was tender, and soft, like a fireplace would sound if it had melody,
   and it washed over Minerva's mind, easing, soothing, gentling what it
   touched...

   "What is that?" Harry whispered beside her. His voice was unstable,
   wobbling, changing pitch.

   "The song of the phoenix," said Minerva, not really aware of what she
   was saying, her attention was all on that strange quiet music. "It,
   too, heals."

   Harry turned his face from her, but she caught a glimpse of something
   agonized.

   The descent seemed to take a very long time, or maybe it was only that
   the music seemed to take a very long time, and when they stepped out
   through the gap where a gargoyle had been, she was holding Harry's hand
   firmly in hers.

   As the gargoyle stepped back into place, Fawkes left her shoulder, and
   swooped to hover in front of Harry.

   Harry stared at Fawkes like someone hypnotized by the ever-changing
   light of a fire.

   "What am I to do, Fawkes?" whispered Harry. "I couldn't have protected
   them if I hadn't been angry."

   The phoenix's wings continued flapping, it continued hovering in place.
   There was no sound but the beating of the wings. Then there was a flash
   like a fire flaring up and going out, and Fawkes was gone.

   Both of them blinked, like waking up from a dream, or maybe like
   falling asleep again.

   Minerva looked down.

   Harry Potter's bright young face looked up at her.

   "Are phoenixes people?" said Harry. "I mean, are they smart enough to
   count as people? Could I talk with Fawkes if I knew how?"

   Minerva blinked hard. Then she blinked again. "No," Minerva said, her
   voice wavering. "Phoenixes are creatures of powerful magic. That magic
   gives their existence a weight of meaning which no simple animal could
   possess. They are fire, light, healing, rebirth. But in the end, no."

   "Where can I get one?"

   Minerva leaned down and hugged him. She hadn't meant to, but she didn't
   seem to have much choice in the matter.

   When she stood up she found it hard to speak. But she had to ask. "What
   happened today, Harry?"

   "I don't know the answers to any of the important questions either.
   Aside from that I'd really rather not think about it for a while."

   Minerva took his hand in hers again, and they walked the rest of the
   way in silence.

   It was only a short trip, since naturally the office of the Deputy was
   close to the office of the Headmaster.

   Minerva sat behind her desk.

   Harry sat in front of her desk.

   "So," Minerva whispered. She would have given almost anything not to do
   this, or not to be the one who had to do it, or for it to be any time
   but right now. "There is a matter of school discipline. From which you
   are not exempt."

   "Namely?" said Harry.

   He didn't know. He hadn't figured it out yet. She felt her throat
   tighten. But there was work to be done and she would not shirk it.

   "Mr. Potter," said Professor McGonagall, "I need to see your
   Time-Turner, please."

   All the peace of the phoenix vanished from his face in an instant and
   Minerva felt like she had just stabbed him.

   "No!" Harry said. His voice was panicked. "I need it, I won't be able
   to attend Hogwarts, I won't be able to sleep!"

   "You'll be able to sleep," she said. "The Ministry has delivered the
   protective shell for your Time-Turner. I will enchant it to open only
   between the hours of 9PM and midnight."

   Harry's face twisted. "But - but I -"

   "Mr. Potter, how many times have you used the Time-Turner since Monday?
   How many hours?"

   "I..." Harry said. "Hold on, let me add it up -" He glanced down at his
   watch.

   Minerva felt a rush of sadness. She'd thought so. "It wasn't just two
   per day, then. I suspect that if I asked your dormmates, I would find
   that you were struggling to stay up long enough to go to sleep at a
   reasonable time, and waking up earlier and earlier every morning.
   Correct?"

   Harry's face said everything she needed to know.

   "Mr. Potter," she said gently, "there are students who cannot be
   entrusted with Time-Turners, because they become addicted to them. We
   give them a potion which lengthens their sleep cycle by the necessary
   amount, but they end up using the Time-Turner for more than just
   attending their classes. And so we must take them back. Mr. Potter, you
   have taken to using the Time-Turner as your solution to everything,
   often very foolishly so. You used it to get back a Remembrall. You
   vanished from a closet in a fashion apparent to other students, instead
   of going back after you were out and getting me or someone else to come
   and open the door."

   From the look on Harry's face he hadn't thought of that.

   "And more importantly," she said, "you should have simply sat in
   Professor Snape's class. And watched. And left at the end of class. As
   you would have done if you had not possessed a Time-Turner. There are
   some students who cannot be entrusted with Time-Turners, Mr. Potter.
   You are one of them. I am sorry."

   "But I need it!" Harry blurted. "What if there are Slytherins
   threatening me and I have to escape? It keeps me safe -"

   "Every other student in this castle runs the same risk, and I assure
   you that they survive. No student has died in this castle for fifty
   years. Mr. Potter, you will hand over your Time-Turner and do so now."

   Harry's face twisted in agony, but he drew out the Time-Turner from
   under his robes and gave it to her.

   From her desk, Minerva drew out one of the protective shells that had
   been sent to Hogwarts. She snapped the cover into place around the
   Time-Turner's turning hourglass, and then she laid her wand on the
   cover to complete the enchantment.

   "This isn't fair!" Harry shrieked. "I saved half of Hogwarts from
   Professor Snape today, is it right that I be punished for it? I saw the
   look on your face, you hated what he was doing!"

   Minerva didn't speak for a few moments. She was enchanting.

   When she finished and looked up, she knew that her face was stern.
   Maybe it was the wrong thing to do. And then again maybe it was the
   right thing to do. There was an obstinate child in front of her, and
   that didn't mean the universe was broken.

   "Fair, Mr. Potter?" she snapped. "I have had to file two reports with
   the Ministry on public use of a Time-Turner in two successive days! Be
   extremely grateful you were allowed to retain the Time-Turner even in
   restricted form! The Headmaster made a Floo call to plead with them
   personally and if you were not the Boy-Who-Lived even that would not
   have sufficed!"

   Harry gaped at her.

   She knew that he was seeing the angry face of Professor McGonagall.

   Harry's eyes filled up with tears.

   "I'm, sorry," he whispered, voice now choked and broken. "I'm sorry, to
   have, disappointed you..."

   "I'm sorry too, Mr. Potter," she said sternly, and handed him the newly
   restricted Time-Turner. "You may go."

   Harry turned and fled from her office, sobbing. She heard his feet
   pattering away down the hall, and then the sound cut off as the door
   swung closed.

   "I'm sorry too, Harry," she whispered to the quiet room. "I'm sorry
   too."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Fifteen minutes into lunch hour.

   No one was speaking to Harry. Some of the Ravenclaws were shooting him
   looks of anger, others of sympathy, a few of the youngest students even
   had looks of admiration, but no one was talking to him. Even Hermione
   hadn't tried to come over.

   Fred and George had gingerly stepped near. They hadn't said anything.
   The offer was clear, and its optionality. Harry had told them that he
   would come over when dessert started, no earlier. They had nodded and
   quickly walked away.

   It was probably the utterly expressionless look on Harry's face that
   was doing it.

   The others probably thought he was controlling anger, or dismay. They
   knew, because they'd seen Flitwick come and get him, that he'd been
   called to the Headmaster's office.

   Harry was trying not to smile, because if he smiled, he would start
   laughing, and if he started laughing, he wouldn't stop until the nice
   people in white jackets came to haul him away.

   It was too much. It was just all too much. Harry had almost gone over
   to the Dark Side, his dark side had done things that seemed in
   retrospect insane, his dark side had won an impossible victory that
   might have been real and might have been a pure whim of a crazy
   Headmaster, his dark side had protected his friends. He just couldn't
   handle it any more. He needed Fawkes to sing to him again. He needed to
   use the Time-Turner to go off and take a quiet hour to recover but that
   wasn't an option any more and the loss was like a hole in his existence
   but he couldn't think about that because then he might start laughing.

   Twenty minutes. All the students who were going to eat lunch had
   arrived, almost none had departed.

   The tapping of a spoon rang through the Great Hall.

   "If I may have your attention please," Dumbledore said. "Harry Potter
   has something he would like to share with us."

   Harry took a deep breath and got up. He walked over to the Head Table,
   with every eye staring at him.

   Harry turned and looked out at the four tables.

   It was becoming harder and harder not to smile, but Harry kept his face
   expressionless as he spoke his brief and memorized speech.

   "The truth is sacred," Harry said tonelessly. "One of my most treasured
   possessions is a button which reads 'Speak the truth, even if your
   voice trembles'. This, then, is the truth. Remember that. I am not
   saying it because I am being forced to say it, I am saying it because
   it is true. What I did in Professor Snape's class was foolish, stupid,
   childish, and an inexcusable violation of the rules of Hogwarts. I
   disrupted the classroom and deprived my fellow students of their
   irreplaceable learning time. All because I failed to control my temper.
   I hope that not a single one of you will ever follow my example. I
   certainly intend to try never to follow it again."

   Many of the students gazing at Harry now had solemn, unhappy looks upon
   their faces, such as one might see at a ceremony marking the loss of a
   fallen champion. At the younger parts of the Gryffindor table the look
   was almost universal.

   Until Harry raised his hand.

   He did not raise it high. That might have appeared preemptory. He
   certainly did not raise it toward Severus. Harry simply raised his hand
   to chest level, and softly snapped his fingers, a gesture that was seen
   more than heard. It was possible that most of the Head Table wouldn't
   see it at all.

   This seeming gesture of defiance won sudden smiles from the younger
   students and Gryffindors, and coldly superior sneers from Slytherin,
   and frowns and worried looks from all others.

   Harry kept his face expressionless. "Thank you," he said. "That's all."

   "Thank you, Mr. Potter," said the Headmaster. "And now Professor Snape
   has something to share with us as well."

   Severus smoothly stood up from his place at the Head Table. "It has
   been brought to my attention," he said, "that my own actions played a
   part in provoking the admittedly inexcusable anger of Mr. Potter, and
   in the ensuing discussion I realized that I had forgotten how easily
   injured are the feelings of the young and immature -"

   There was the sound of many people emitting muffled chokes at the same
   time.

   Severus continued as if he had not heard. "The Potions classroom is a
   dangerous place, and I still feel that strict discipline is necessary,
   but henceforth I will be more aware of the... emotional fragility... of
   students in their fourth year and younger. My deduction of points from
   Ravenclaw still stands, but I will revoke Mr. Potter's detention. Thank
   you."

   There was a single clap from the direction of Gryffindor and faster
   than lightning Severus's wand was in his hand and "Quietus!" silenced
   the offender.

   "I will still demand discipline and respect in all my classes," Severus
   said coldly, "and anyone who trifles with me will regret it."

   He sat down.

   "Thank you too!" Headmaster Dumbledore said cheerfully. "Carry on!"

   And Harry, still expressionless, began to walk back to his seat in
   Ravenclaw.

   There was an explosion of conversation. Two words were clearly
   identifiable in the beginning. The first was an initial "What -"
   beginning many different sentences such as "What just happened -" and
   "What the hell -" The second was "Scourgify!" as students cleaned up
   the dropped food and spit-out drinks from themselves, the tablecloth,
   and each other.

   Some students were weeping openly. So was Professor Sprout.

   At the Gryffindor table, where a cake waited with fifty-one unlit
   candles, Fred whispered, "I think we may be out of our league here,
   George."

   And from that day onward, no matter what Hermione tried to tell anyone,
   it would be an accepted legend of Hogwarts that Harry Potter could make
   absolutely anything happen by snapping his fingers.
   Chapter 19: Delayed Gratification

   Blood for the blood god! Skulls for J. K. Rowling!
     __________________________________________________________________

   Draco had a stern expression on his face, and his green-trimmed robes
   somehow looked far more formal, serious, and well-turned-out than the
   same exact robes as worn by the two boys behind him.

   "Talk," said Draco.

   "Yeah! Talk!"

   "You heard da boss! Talk!"

   "You two, on the other hand, shut up."

   The last session of classes on Friday was about to start, in that vast
   auditorium where all four Houses learned Defense, er, Battle Magic.

   The last session of classes on Friday.

   Harry was hoping that this class would be non-stressful, and that the
   brilliant Professor Quirrell would realize this was perhaps not the
   best time to single out Harry for anything. Harry had recovered a
   little, but...

   ...but just in case, it was probably best to get in a bit of stress
   relief first.

   Harry leaned back in his chair and bestowed a look of great solemnity
   upon Draco and his minions.

   "You ask, what is our aim?" Harry declaimed. "I can answer in one word.
   It is victory. Victory at all costs - Victory in spite of all terrors -
   Victory, however long and hard the road may be, for without victory
   there is no -"

   "Talk about Snape," Draco hissed. "What did you do?"

   Harry wiped away the fake solemnity and gave Draco a more serious look.

   "You saw it," Harry said. "Everyone saw it. I snapped my fingers."

   "Harry! Stop teasing me!"

   So he'd been promoted to Harry now. Interesting. And in fact Harry was
   fairly sure that he was meant to notice that, and feel bad if he didn't
   respond somehow...

   Harry tapped his ears and gave a significant glance at the minions.

   "They won't talk," said Draco.

   "Draco," Harry said, "I'm going to be one hundred percent honest here
   and say that yesterday I was not particularly impressed with Mr.
   Goyle's cunning."

   Mr. Goyle winced.

   "Me neither," said Draco. "I explained to him that I ended up owing you
   a favor because of it." (Mr. Goyle winced again.) "But there is a big
   difference between that sort of mistake and being indiscreet. That
   really is something they've been trained from childhood to understand."

   "All right then," Harry said. He lowered his voice, even though the
   background noises had gone to blurs in Draco's presence. "I deduced one
   of Severus's secrets and did a bit of blackmail."

   Draco's expression hardened. "Good, now tell me something you didn't
   tell in strict confidence to the idiots in Gryffindor, meaning that was
   the story you wanted to get all over the school."

   Harry grinned involuntarily and he knew that Draco had caught it.

   "What is Severus saying?" Harry said.

   "That he hadn't realized how sensitive the feelings of young children
   were," Draco said. "Even in Slytherin! Even to me!"

   "Are you sure," Harry said, "that you want to know something your Head
   of House would rather you not know?"

   "Yes," Draco said without hesitation.

   Interesting. "Then you really are going to send your minions away
   first, because I'm not sure I can believe everything you believe about
   them."

   Draco nodded. "Okay."

   Mr. Crabbe and Mr. Goyle looked very unhappy. "Boss -" said Mr. Crabbe.

   "You've given Mr. Potter no reason to trust you," Draco said. "Go!"

   They left.

   "In particular," Harry said, lowering his voice even further, "I'm not
   entirely sure that they wouldn't just report what I said to Lucius."

   "Father wouldn't do that!" Draco said, looking genuinely aghast.
   "They're mine!"

   "I'm sorry, Draco," Harry said. "I'm just not sure I can believe
   everything you believe about your father. Imagine it was your secret
   and me telling you my father wouldn't do that."

   Draco nodded slowly. "You're right. I'm sorry, Harry. It was wrong of
   me to ask it of you."

   How did I get this promoted? Shouldn't he hate me now? Harry had the
   feeling he was looking at something exploitable... he just wished his
   brain wasn't so exhausted. Ordinarily he would have loved to try his
   hand at some complicated plotting.

   "Anyway," Harry said. "Trade. I tell you a fact that isn't on the
   grapevine, and does not go on the grapevine, and in particular does not
   go to your father, and in return you tell me what you and Slytherin
   think about the whole business."

   "Deal!"

   Now to make this as vague as possible... something that wouldn't hurt
   much even if it did get out... "What I said was true. I did discover
   one of Severus's secrets, and I did do some blackmail. But Severus
   wasn't the only person involved."

   "I knew it!" Draco said exultantly.

   Harry's stomach sank. He had apparently said something very significant
   and he did not know why. This was not a good sign.

   "All right," Draco said. He was grinning widely now. "So here's what
   the reaction was like in Slytherin. First, all the idiots were like,
   'We hate Harry Potter! Let's go beat him up!'"

   Harry choked. "What is wrong with the Sorting Hat? That's not
   Slytherin, it's Gryffindor -"

   "Not all children are prodigies," Draco said, though he was smiling in
   a sort of nasty-conspiratorial way, as though to suggest that he
   privately agreed with Harry's opinion. "And it took around fifteen
   seconds for someone to explain to them why this might not be such a
   favor to Snape, so you're fine. Anyway, after that was the second wave
   of idiots, the ones who were saying, 'Looks like Harry Potter was just
   another do-gooder after all.'"

   "And then?" Harry said, smiling even though he had no idea why that was
   stupid.

   "And then the actual smart people started talking. It's obvious that
   you found a way to put a lot of pressure on Snape. And while that could
   be more than one thing... the obvious next thought is that it has
   something to do with Snape's unknown hold over Dumbledore. Am I right?"

   "No comment," Harry said. At least his brain was processing this part
   correctly. House Slytherin had wondered why Severus wasn't getting
   fired. And they'd concluded that Severus was blackmailing Dumbledore.
   Could that actually be true...? But Dumbledore hadn't seemed to act
   like it...

   Draco went on talking. "And the next thing the smart people pointed out
   was that if you could put enough pressure on Snape to make him leave
   half of Hogwarts alone, that meant you probably had enough power to get
   rid of him entirely, if you wanted. What you did to him was a
   humiliation, just the same way he tried to humiliate you - but you left
   us our Head of House."

   Harry made his smile wider.

   "And then the really smart people," Draco said, his face now serious,
   "went off and had a little discussion by themselves, and someone
   pointed out that it would be a very stupid thing to leave an enemy
   around like that. If you could break his hold over Dumbledore, the
   obvious thing would be to just do it. Dumbledore would kick Snape out
   of Hogwarts and maybe even have him killed, he'd be very grateful to
   you, and you wouldn't have to worry about Snape sneaking into your dorm
   room at night with interesting potions."

   Harry's face was now neutral. He had not thought of that and he really,
   really should have. "And from this you concluded...?"

   "Snape's hold was some secret of Dumbledore's and you've got the
   secret!" Draco was looking exultant. "It can't be powerful enough to
   destroy Dumbledore entirely, or Snape would have used it by now. Snape
   refuses to use his hold for anything except staying king of Slytherin
   House in Hogwarts, and he doesn't always get what he wants even then,
   so it must have limits. But it's got to be really good! Father's been
   trying to get Snape to tell him for years!"

   "And," Harry said, "now Lucius thinks maybe I can tell him. Did you
   already get an owl -"

   "I will tonight," Draco said, and laughed. "It will say," his voice
   took on a different, more formal cadence, "My beloved son: I've already
   told you of Harry Potter's potential importance. As you have already
   realized, his importance has now become greater and more urgent. If you
   see any possible avenue of friendship or point of pressure with him,
   you must pursue it, and the full resources of Malfoy are at your
   disposal if needed."

   Gosh. "Well," Harry said, "not commenting on whether or not your whole
   complicated edifice of theory is true, let me just say that we are not
   quite such good friends as yet."

   "I know," Draco said. Then his face turned very serious, and his voice
   grew quiet even within the blur. "Harry, has it occurred to you that if
   you know something Dumbledore doesn't want known, Dumbledore might
   simply have you killed? And it would turn the Boy-Who-Lived from a
   potential competing leader into a valuable martyr, too."

   "No comment," Harry said yet again. He hadn't thought of that last
   part, either. Didn't seem to be Dumbledore's style... but...

   "Harry," Draco said, "you've obviously got incredible talent, but
   you've got no training and no mentors and you do stupid things
   sometimes and you really need an advisor who knows how to do this or
   you're going to get hurt!" Draco's face was fierce.

   "Ah," Harry said. "An advisor like Lucius?"

   "Like me!" said Draco. "I'll promise to keep your secrets from Father,
   from everyone, I'll just help you figure out whatever you want to do!"

   Wow.

   Harry saw that zombie-Quirrell was staggering in through the doors.

   "Class is about to start," said Harry. "I'll think about what you said,
   there's lots of times I do wish I had all your training, it's just I
   don't know how I can trust you so quickly -"

   "You shouldn't," Draco said, "it's too soon. See? I'll give you good
   advice even if it hurts me. But we should maybe hurry up and become
   closer friends."

   "I'm open to that," said Harry, who was already trying to figure out
   how to exploit it.

   "Another bit of advice," Draco said hurriedly as Quirrell slouched
   toward his desk, "right now everyone in Slytherin's wondering about
   you, so if you're courting us, which I think you are, you should do
   something that signals friendship to Slytherin. Soon, like today or
   tomorrow."

   "Letting Severus go on awarding extra House points to Slytherin wasn't
   enough?" No reason Harry couldn't take credit for it.

   Draco's eyes flickered with realization, then he said rapidly, "It's
   not the same, trust me, it's got to be something obvious. Push your
   mudblood rival Granger into a wall or something, everyone in Slytherin
   will know what that means -"

   "That is not how it works in Ravenclaw, Draco! If you have to push
   someone into a wall it means your brain is too weak to beat them the
   right way and everyone in Ravenclaw knows that -"

   The screen on Harry's desk flickered on, provoking a sudden wash of
   nostalgia for television and computers.

   "Ahem," said Professor Quirrell's voice, seeming to speak personally to
   Harry out of the screen. "Please take your seats."
     __________________________________________________________________

   And the children were all seated and staring at the repeater screens on
   their desks, or looking down directly at the great white marble stage
   where Professor Quirrell stood, leaning on his desk atop the small dais
   of darker marble.

   "Today," said Professor Quirrell, "I had planned to teach you your
   first defensive spell, a small shield that was the ancestor of today's
   Protego. But on second thought I have changed today's lesson plan in
   the light of recent events."

   Professor Quirrell's gaze searched the rows of seats. Harry winced from
   where he was sitting, in the back row. He had a feeling he knew who was
   about to be called on.

   "Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy," said Professor
   Quirrell.

   Whew.

   "Yes, Professor?" said Draco. His voice was amplified, seeming to come
   from the repeater screen on Harry's desk, which showed Draco's face as
   he spoke. Then the screen shifted back to Professor Quirrell, who said:

   "Is it your ambition to become the next Dark Lord?"

   "That's an odd question, Professor," said Draco. "I mean, who'd be dumb
   enough to admit it?"

   A few students laughed, but not many.

   "Indeed," said Professor Quirrell. "So while there's no point in asking
   any of you, it would not surprise me in the slightest if there were a
   student or two in my classes who harbored ambitions of being the next
   Dark Lord. After all, I wanted to be the next Dark Lord when I was a
   young Slytherin."

   This time the laughter was much more widespread.

   "Well, it is the House of the ambitious, after all," Professor Quirrell
   said, smiling. "I didn't realize until later that what I really enjoyed
   was Battle Magic, and that my true ambition was to become a great
   fighting wizard and someday teach at Hogwarts. In any case, when I was
   thirteen years old, I read through the historical sections of the
   Hogwarts library, scrutinizing the lives and fates of past Dark Lords,
   and I made a list of all the mistakes that I would never make when I
   was a Dark Lord -"

   Harry giggled before he could stop himself.

   "Yes, Mr. Potter, very amusing. So, Mr. Potter, can you guess what was
   the very first item on that list?"

   Great. "Um... never use a complicated way of dealing with an enemy when
   you can just Abracadabra them?"

   "The term, Mr. Potter, is Avada Kedavra," Professor Quirrell's voice
   sounded a bit sharp for some reason, "and no, that was not on the list
   I made at age thirteen. Would you care to guess again?"

   "Ah... never brag to anyone about your evil master plan?"

   Professor Quirrell laughed. "Ah, now that was number two. My, Mr.
   Potter, have we been reading the same books?"

   There was more laughter, with an undertone of nervousness. Harry
   clenched his jaw tightly shut and said nothing. A denial would
   accomplish nothing.

   "But no. The first item was, 'I will not go around provoking strong,
   vicious enemies.' The history of the world would be very different if
   Mornelithe Falconsbane or Hitler had grasped that elementary point. Now
   if, Mr. Potter - just if by some chance you harbor an ambition similar
   to the one I held as a young Slytherin - even so, I hope it is not your
   ambition to become a stupid Dark Lord."

   "Professor Quirrell," Harry said, gritting his teeth, "I am a Ravenclaw
   and it is not my ambition to be stupid, period. I know that what I did
   today was dumb. But it wasn't Dark! I was not the one who threw the
   first punch in that fight!"

   "You, Mr. Potter, are an idiot. But then so was I at your age. Thus I
   anticipated your answer and altered today's lesson plan accordingly.
   Mr. Gregory Goyle, if you would come forward, please?"

   There was a surprised pause in the classroom. Harry hadn't been
   expecting that.

   Neither, from the looks of it, had Mr. Goyle, who looked rather
   uncertain and worried as he mounted the marble stage and approached the
   dais.

   Professor Quirrell straightened from where he was leaning on the desk.
   He looked suddenly stronger, and his hands formed fists and he drew
   himself up into a clearly recognizable martial arts stance.

   Harry's eyes widened at the sight, and he realized why Mr. Goyle had
   been called up.

   "Most wizards," Professor Quirrell said, "do not bother much with what
   a Muggle would term martial arts. Is not a wand stronger than a fist?
   This attitude is stupid. Wands are held in fists. If you want to be a
   great fighting wizard you must learn martial arts to a level which
   would impress even a Muggle. I will now demonstrate a certain vitally
   important technique, which I learned in a dojo, a Muggle school of
   martial arts, of which I shall speak more shortly. For now..."
   Professor Quirrell took several steps forward, still in stance,
   advancing on where Mr. Goyle stood. "Mr. Goyle, I will ask you to
   attack me."

   "Professor Quirrell," said Mr. Goyle, his voice now amplified as the
   professor's was, "can I ask what level -"

   "Sixth dan. You will not be hurt and neither will I. And if you see an
   opening, please take it."

   Mr. Goyle nodded, looking much relieved.

   "Note," Professor Quirrell said, "that Mr. Goyle was afraid to attack
   someone who did not know martial arts to an acceptable level, for fear
   that I, or he, would be hurt. Mr. Goyle's attitude is exactly correct
   and he has earned three Quirrell points for it. Now, fight!"

   The young boy blurred forward, fists flying, and the Professor blocked
   every blow, dancing backward, Quirrell kicked and Goyle blocked and
   spun and tried to trip Quirrell with a sweeping leg and Quirrell hopped
   over it and it was all happening too fast for Harry to make sense of
   what was going on and then Goyle was on his back with his legs pushing
   and Quirrell was actually flying through the air and then he hit the
   ground shoulder first and rolled.

   "Stop!" cried Professor Quirrell from the ground, sounding a little
   panicked. "You win!"

   Mr. Goyle pulled up so sharply he staggered, almost tripping and
   falling from the aborted momentum of his headlong charge toward
   Professor Quirrell. His face showed utter shock.

   Professor Quirrell arched his back and bounced to his feet using a
   peculiar springing motion that made no use of his hands.

   There was a silence in the classroom, a silence born of total
   confusion.

   "Mr. Goyle," said Professor Quirrell, "what vitally important technique
   did I demonstrate?"

   "How to fall correctly when someone throws you," said Mr. Goyle. "It's
   one of the very first lessons you learn -"

   "That too," said Professor Quirrell.

   There was a pause.

   "The vitally important technique which I demonstrated," said Professor
   Quirrell, "was how to lose. You may go, Mr. Goyle, thank you."

   Mr. Goyle walked off the platform, looking rather bewildered. Harry
   felt the same way.

   Professor Quirrell walked back to his desk and resumed leaning on it.
   "Sometimes we forget the most basic things, since it has been too long
   since we learned them. I realized I had done the same with my own
   lesson plan. You do not teach students to throw until you have taught
   them to fall. And I must not teach you to fight if you do not
   understand how to lose."

   Professor Quirrell's face hardened, and Harry thought he saw a hint of
   pain, a touch of sorrow, in those eyes. "I learned how to lose in a
   dojo in Asia, which, as any Muggle knows, is where all the good martial
   artists live. This dojo taught a style which had a reputation among
   fighting wizards as adapting well to magical dueling. The Master of
   that dojo - an old man by Muggle standards - was that style's greatest
   living teacher. He had no idea that magic existed, of course. I applied
   to study there, and was one of the few students accepted that year,
   from among many contenders. There might have been a tiny bit of special
   influence involved."

   There was some laughter in the classroom. Harry didn't share it. That
   hadn't been right at all.

   "In any case. During one of my first fights, after I had been beaten in
   a particularly humiliating fashion, I lost control and attacked my
   sparring partner -"

   Yikes.

   "- thankfully with my fists, rather than my magic. The Master,
   surprisingly, did not expel me on the spot. But he told me that there
   was a flaw in my temperament. He explained it to me, and I knew that he
   was right. And then he said that I would learn how to lose."

   Professor Quirrell's face was expressionless.

   "Upon his strict orders, all of the students of the dojo lined up. One
   by one, they approached me. I was not to defend myself. I was only to
   beg for mercy. One by one, they slapped me, or punched me, and pushed
   me to the ground. Some of them spat on me. They called me awful names
   in their language. And to each one, I had to say, 'I lose!' and similar
   such things, such as 'I beg you to stop!' and 'I admit you're better
   than me!'"

   Harry was trying to imagine this and simply failing. There was no way
   something like that could have happened to the dignified Professor
   Quirrell.

   "I was a prodigy of Battle Magic even then. With wandless magic alone I
   could have killed everyone in that dojo. I did not do so. I learned to
   lose. To this day I remember it as one of the most unpleasant hours of
   my life. And when I left that dojo eight months later - which was not
   nearly enough time, but was all I could afford to spend - the Master
   told me that he hoped I understood why that had been necessary. And I
   told him that it was one of the most valuable lessons I had ever
   learned. Which was, and is, true."

   Professor Quirrell's face turned bitter. "You are wondering where this
   marvelous dojo is, and whether you can study there. You cannot. For not
   long afterward, another would-be student came to that hidden place, to
   that remote mountain. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named."

   There was the sound of many breaths being drawn in simultaneously.
   Harry felt sick to his stomach. He knew what was coming.

   "The Dark Lord came to that school openly, without disguise, glowing
   red eyes and all. The students tried to bar his way and he simply
   Apparated through. There was terror there, but discipline, and the
   Master came forth. And the Dark Lord demanded - not asked, but demanded
   - to be taught."

   Professor Quirrell's face was very hard. "Perhaps the Master had read
   too many books telling the lie that a true martial artist could defeat
   even demons. For whatever reason, the Master refused. The Dark Lord
   asked why he could not be a student. The Master told him he had no
   patience, and that was when the Dark Lord ripped his tongue out."

   There was a collective gasp.

   "You can guess what happened next. The students tried to rush the Dark
   Lord and fell over, stunned where they stood. And then..."

   Professor Quirrell's voice faltered for a moment, then resumed.

   "There is an Unforgiveable Curse, the Cruciatus Curse, which produces
   unbearable pain. If the Cruciatus is extended for longer than a few
   minutes it produces permanent insanity. One by one, the Dark Lord
   Crucioed the Master's students into insanity, and then finished them
   off with the Killing Curse, while the Master was forced to watch. When
   all his students had died in this way, the Master followed. I learned
   this from the single surviving student, whom the Dark Lord had left
   alive to tell the tale, and who had been a friend of mine..."

   Professor Quirrell turned away, and when he turned back a moment later,
   he once again seemed calm and composed.

   "Dark Wizards cannot keep their tempers," Professor Quirrell said
   quietly. "It is a nearly universal flaw of the species, and anyone who
   makes a habit of fighting them soon learns to rely on it. Understand
   that the Dark Lord did not win that day. His goal was to learn martial
   arts, and yet he left without a single lesson. The Dark Lord was
   foolish to wish that story retold. It did not show his strength, but
   rather an exploitable weakness."

   Professor Quirrell's gaze focused on a single child in the classroom.

   "Harry Potter," Professor Quirrell said.

   "Yes," Harry said, his voice hoarse.

   "What precisely did you do wrong today, Mr. Potter?"

   Harry felt like he was going to throw up. "I lost my temper."

   "That is not precise," said Professor Quirrell. "I will describe it
   more exactly. There are many animals which have what are called
   dominance contests. They rush at each other with horns - trying to
   knock each other down, not gore each other. They fight with their paws
   - with claws sheathed. But why with their claws sheathed? Surely, if
   they used their claws, they would stand a better chance of winning? But
   then their enemy might unsheathe their claws as well, and instead of
   resolving the dominance contest with a winner and a loser, both of them
   might be severely hurt."

   Professor Quirrell gaze seemed to come straight out at Harry from the
   repeater screen. "What you demonstrated today, Mr. Potter, is that -
   unlike those animals who keep their claws sheathed and accept the
   results - you do not know how to lose a dominance contest. When a
   Hogwarts professor challenged you, you did not back down. When it
   looked like you might lose, you unsheathed your claws, heedless of the
   danger. You escalated, and then you escalated again. It started with a
   slap at you from Professor Snape, who was obviously dominant over you.
   Instead of losing, you slapped back and lost ten points from Ravenclaw.
   Soon you were talking about leaving Hogwarts. The fact that you
   escalated even further in some unknown direction, and somehow won at
   the end, does not change the fact that you are an idiot."

   "I understand," Harry said. His throat was dry. That had been precise.
   Frighteningly precise. Now that Professor Quirrell had said it, Harry
   could see in hindsight that it was an exactly accurate description of
   what had happened. When someone's model of you was that good, you had
   to wonder whether they were right about other things too, like your
   intent to kill.

   "The next time, Mr. Potter, that you choose to escalate a contest
   rather than lose, you may lose all the stakes you place on the table. I
   cannot guess what they were today. I can guess that they were far, far
   too high for the loss of ten House points."

   Like the fate of magical Britain. That was what he'd done.

   ''You will protest that you were trying to help all of Hogwarts, a much
   more important goal worthy of great risks. That is a lie. If you had
   been -"

   "I would have taken the slap, waited, and picked the best possible time
   to make my move," Harry said, his voice hoarse. "But that would have
   meant losing. Letting him be dominant over me. It was what the Dark
   Lord couldn't do with the Master he wanted to learn from."

   Professor Quirrell nodded. "I see that you have understood perfectly.
   And so, Mr. Potter, today you are going to learn how to lose."

   "I -"

   "I will not hear any objections, Mr. Potter. It is evident both that
   you need this and that you are strong enough to take it. I assure you
   that your experience will not be so harsh as what I went through,
   though you may well remember it as the worst fifteen minutes of your
   young life."

   Harry swallowed. "Professor Quirrell," he said in a small voice, "can
   we do this some other time?"

   "No," Professor Quirrell said simply. "You are five days into your
   Hogwarts education and already this has happened. Today is Friday. Our
   next defense class is on Wednesday. Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
   Wednesday... No, we do not have time to wait."

   There were a few laughs at this, but very few.

   "Please consider it an order from your professor, Mr. Potter. What I
   would like to say is that otherwise I will not teach you any offensive
   spells, because I would then hear that you had severely hurt or even
   killed someone. Unfortunately I am told that your fingers are already
   powerful weapons. Do not snap them at any time during this lesson."

   More scattered laughter, sounding rather nervous.

   Harry felt like he might cry. "Professor Quirrell, if you do anything
   like what you talked about, it's going to make me angry, and I really
   would rather not get angry again today -"

   "The point is not to avoid getting angry," Professor Quirrell said, his
   face looking grave. "Anger is natural. You need to learn how to lose
   even when you are angry. Or at least pretend to lose so that you can
   plan your vengeance. As I did with Mr. Goyle today, unless of course
   any of you think he really is better -"

   "I'm not!" shouted Mr. Goyle from his desk, sounding a little frantic.
   "I know you didn't really lose! Please don't plan any vengeances!"

   Harry felt sick to his stomach. Professor Quirrell didn't know about
   his mysterious dark side. "Professor, we really need to talk about this
   after class -"

   "We will," Professor Quirrell said in the tones of a promise. "After
   you learn how to lose." His face was serious. "It should go without
   saying that I will exclude anything which could injure you or even
   cause you significant pain. The pain will come from the difficulty of
   losing, instead of fighting back and escalating the battle until you
   win."

   Harry's breath was coming in short, panicky pants. He was more
   frightened than he'd been after leaving the Potions classroom.
   "Professor Quirrell," he managed to say, "I don't want you to get fired
   over this -"

   "I will not be," Professor Quirrell said, "if you tell them afterward
   that it was necessary. And this I trust you to do." For a moment
   Professor Quirrell's voice turned very dry. "Believe me, they have
   tolerated worse in their hallways. This case will be exceptional only
   in that it happens within a classroom."

   "Professor Quirrell," Harry whispered, but he thought his voice was
   still being repeated everywhere, "do you really believe that if I don't
   do this, I might hurt someone?"

   "Yes," Professor Quirrell said simply.

   "Then," Harry felt nauseous, "I'll do it."

   Professor Quirrell turned to regard the Slytherins. "So... with the
   full approval of your teacher, and in such a fashion that Snape cannot
   be blamed for your actions... do any of you wish to show your dominance
   over the Boy-Who-Lived? Shove him around, push him to the ground, hear
   him beg for your mercy?"

   Five hands went up.

   "Everyone with your hand raised, you are an absolute idiot. What part
   of pretending to lose did you not understand? If Harry Potter does
   become the next Dark Lord he will hunt you down and kill you after he
   graduates."

   The five hands dropped abruptly back to their desks.

   "I won't," Harry said, his voice coming out rather weakly. "I swear
   never to take vengeance upon those who help me learn to lose. Professor
   Quirrell... would you please... stop that?"

   Professor Quirrell sighed. "I am sorry, Mr. Potter. I realize that you
   must find this equally annoying whether you intend to become a Dark
   Lord or not. But those children also had an important life lesson to
   learn. Would it be acceptable if I awarded you a Quirrell point in
   apology?"

   "Make it two," Harry said.

   There was a current of surprised laughter, defusing some of the
   tension.

   "Done," Professor Quirrell said.

   "And after I graduate I'm going to hunt you down and tickle you."

   There was more laughter, although Professor Quirrell didn't smile.

   Harry felt like he was wrestling an anaconda, trying to force the
   conversation through the narrow course that would make people realize
   he wasn't a Dark Lord after all... why was Professor Quirrell so
   suspicious of him?

   "Professor," said Draco's unamplified voice. "It is also not my own
   ambition to become a stupid Dark Lord."

   There was a shocked silence in the classroom.

   You don't have to do this! Harry almost blurted out loud, but checked
   himself in time; Draco might not wish it known that he was doing this
   out of friendship for Harry... or out of the desire to appear
   friendly...

   Calling that a desire to appear friendly made Harry feel small, and
   mean. If Draco had intended to impress him, it was working perfectly.

   Professor Quirrell was regarding Draco gravely. "You worry that you
   cannot pretend to lose, Mr. Malfoy? That this flaw which describes Mr.
   Potter also describes you? Surely your father taught you better."

   "When it comes to talking, maybe," said Draco, now on the repeater
   screen. "Not when it comes to being shoved around and pushed to the
   ground. I want to be fully as strong as you, Professor Quirrell."

   Professor Quirrell's eyebrows went up and stayed up. "I am afraid, Mr.
   Malfoy," he said after a time, "that the arrangements I made for Mr.
   Potter, involving some older Slytherins who will be told afterward how
   stupid they were, would not carry over onto you. But it is my
   professional opinion that you are already very strong. Should I hear
   that you have failed, as Mr. Potter failed today, I will make the
   appropriate arrangements and apologize to you and whomever you have
   hurt. I do not think this will be necessary, however."

   "I understand, professor," said Draco.

   Professor Quirrell looked over the class. "Does anyone else wish to
   become strong?"

   Some students glanced around nervously. Some, Harry thought from his
   back row, looked like they were opening their mouths but not saying
   anything. In the end, no one spoke.

   "Draco Malfoy will be one of the generals of your year's armies," said
   Professor Quirrell, "should he deign to engage in that after-school
   activity. And now, Mr. Potter, please come forward."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Yes, Professor Quirrell had said, it must be in front of everyone, in
   front of your friends, because that is where Snape confronted you and
   that is where you must learn to lose.

   So now the first year watched. In magically enforced silence, and with
   requests from both Harry and the professor not to intervene. Hermione
   had her face turned away, but she hadn't spoken out or even given him
   any sort of significant look, maybe because she'd been there in Potions
   too.

   Harry stood on a soft blue mat, such as might be found in a Muggle
   dojo, which Professor Quirrell had laid out upon the floor for when
   Harry was pushed down.

   Harry was frightened of what he might do. If Professor Quirrell was
   right about his intent to kill...

   Harry's wand lay on Professor Quirrell's desk, not because Harry knew
   any spells that could defend him, but because otherwise (Harry thought)
   he might have tried to jam it through someone's eye socket. His pouch
   lay there, now containing his protected but still potentially fragile
   Time-Turner.

   Harry had pleaded with Professor Quirrell to Transfigure him some
   boxing gloves and lock them on his hands. Professor Quirrell had given
   him a look of silent understanding, and refused.

   I will not go for their eyes, I will not go for their eyes, I will not
   go for their eyes, it would be the end of my life in Hogwarts, I'll be
   arrested, Harry chanted to himself, trying to hammer the thought into
   his brain, hoping it would stay there if his intent to kill took over.

   Professor Quirrell returned, escorting thirteen older Slytherins of
   different years. Harry recognized one of them as the one he'd hit with
   a pie. Two others from that confrontation were also present. The one
   who'd said to stop, that they really shouldn't do this, was missing.

   "I repeat," Professor Quirrell said, sounding very stern, "Potter is
   not to be really hurt. Any and all accidents will be treated as
   deliberate. Do you understand?"

   The older Slytherins nodded, grinning.

   "Then please feel free to take the Boy-Who-Lived down a few pegs,"
   Professor Quirrell said, with a twisted smile that only the first-years
   understood.

   By some form of mutual consent, the pie-target was at the front of the
   group.

   "Potter," said Professor Quirrell, "meet Mr. Peregrine Derrick. He is
   better than you and he is about to show you that."

   Derrick strode forward and Harry's brain screamed discordantly, he must
   not run away, he must not fight back -

   Derrick stopped an arm's length away from Harry.

   Harry wasn't angry yet, just frightened. And that meant he beheld a
   teenage boy fully half a meter taller than himself, with clearly
   defined muscles, facial hair, and a grin of terrible anticipation.

   "Ask him not to hurt you," Professor Quirrell said. "Perhaps if he sees
   that you're pathetic enough, he'll decide that you're boring, and go
   away."

   There was laughter from the watching older Slytherins.

   "Please," Harry said, his voice faltering, "don't, hurt, me..."

   "That didn't sound very sincere," said Professor Quirrell.

   Derrick's smile widened. The clumsy imbecile was looking very superior
   and...

   ...Harry's blood temperature was dropping...

   "Please don't hurt me," Harry tried again.

   Professor Quirrell shook his head. "How in Merlin's name did you manage
   to make that sound like an insult, Potter? There is only one response
   you can possibly expect from Mr. Derrick."

   Derrick stepped forward deliberately, and bumped into Harry.

   Harry staggered back a few feet and, before he could stop himself,
   straightened up icily.

   "Wrong," said Professor Quirrell, "wrong, wrong, wrong."

   "You bumped into me, Potter," Derrick said. "Apologize."

   "I'm sorry!"

   "You don't sound sorry," said Derrick.

   Harry's eyes widened in indignation, he had managed to make that sound
   pleading -

   Derrick pushed him, hard, and Harry fell to the mat on his hands and
   knees.

   The blue fabric seemed to waver in Harry's vision, not far away.

   He was beginning to doubt Professor Quirrell's real motives in teaching
   this so-called lesson.

   A foot rested on Harry's buttocks and a moment later Harry was pushed
   hard to the side, sending him sprawling on his back.

   Derrick laughed. "This is fun," he said.

   All he had to do was say it was over. And report the whole thing to the
   Headmaster's office. That would be the end of this Defense Professor
   and his ill-fated stay at Hogwarts and... Professor McGonagall would be
   angry about that, but...

   (An image of Professor McGonagall's face flashed before his eyes, she
   didn't look angry, just sad -)

   "Now tell him that he's better than you, Potter," said Professor
   Quirrell's voice.

   "You're, better, than, me."

   Harry started to raise himself and Derrick put a foot on his chest and
   shoved him back down to the mat.

   The world was becoming transparent as crystal. Lines of action and
   their consequences stretched out before him in utter clarity. The fool
   wouldn't be expecting him to strike back, a quick hit in the groin
   would stun him long enough for -

   "Try again," said Professor Quirrell and with a sudden sharp motion
   Harry rolled and sprang to his feet and whirled on where stood his real
   enemy, the Defense Professor -

   Professor Quirrell said, "You have no patience."

   Harry faltered. His mind, well-honed in pessimism, drew a picture of a
   wizened old man with blood pouring from his mouth after Harry had
   ripped his tongue out -

   A moment later, Derrick pushed Harry to the mat again and then sat down
   on him, sending Harry's breath whooshing out.

   "Stop!" Harry screamed. "Please stop!"

   "Better," said Professor Quirrell. "That even sounded sincere."

   It had been. That was the horrible thing, the sickening thing, it had
   been sincere. Harry was panting rapidly, fear and cold anger both
   flushing through him -

   "Lose," said Professor Quirrell.

   "I, lose," Harry forced out.

   "I like it," Derrick said from on top of him. "Lose some more."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Hands shoved Harry, sending him stumbling across the circle of older
   Slytherins to another set of hands that shoved him again. Harry had
   long since passed the point of trying not to cry, and was now just
   trying not to fall down.

   "What are you, Potter?" said Derrick.

   "A, l-loser, I lose, I give up, you win, you're b-better, than me,
   please stop -"

   Harry tripped over a foot and went crashing to the ground, hands not
   quite able to catch himself. He was dazed for a moment, then began
   struggling to his feet again -

   "Enough!" said Professor Quirrell's voice, sounding sharp enough to cut
   iron. "Step away from Mr. Potter!"

   Harry saw the surprised looks on their faces. The chill in his blood,
   which had been flowing and ebbing, smiled in cold satisfaction.

   Then Harry collapsed to the mat.

   Professor Quirrell talked. There were gasps from the older Slytherins.

   "And I believe the scion of Malfoy has something he wants to explain to
   you as well," finished Professor Quirrell.

   Draco's voice started talking. His voice sounded almost as sharp as
   professor Quirrell's, it had acquired the same cadence Draco had used
   to imitate his father, and it was saying things like could have put
   Slytherin House in jeopardy and who knows how many allies in this
   school alone and total lack of awareness, never mind cunning and dull
   thugs, useful for nothing but lackeys and something in Harry's
   hindbrain, despite everything he knew, was designating Draco as an
   ally.

   Harry ached all over, was probably bruised, his body felt cold, his
   mind utterly exhausted. He tried to think of Fawkes's song, but without
   the phoenix present he couldn't remember the melody and when he tried
   to imagine it he couldn't seem to think of anything except a bird
   chirping.

   Then Draco stopped talking and Professor Quirrell told the older
   Slytherins they were dismissed, and Harry opened his eyes and struggled
   to sit up, "Wait," Harry said, forcing the words out, "there's
   something, I want, to say, to them -"

   "Wait on Mr. Potter," Professor Quirrell said coldly to the departing
   Slytherins.

   Harry swayed to his feet. He was careful not to look in the direction
   of his classmates. He didn't want to see how they were looking at him
   now. He didn't want to see their pity.

   So instead Harry looked at the older Slytherins, who still seemed to be
   in a state of shock. They stared back at him. Dread was on their faces.

   His dark side, when it was in control, had held to the imagination of
   this moment, and went on pretending to lose.

   Harry said, "No one will -"

   "Stop," said Professor Quirrell. "If that's what I think it is, please
   wait until after they're gone. They'll hear about it later. We all have
   our lessons to learn, Mr. Potter."

   "All right," Harry said.

   "You. Go."

   The older Slytherins fled and the door closed behind them.

   "No one's to take any revenge on them," Harry said hoarsely. "That's a
   request to anyone who considers themselves my friend. I had my lesson
   to learn, they helped me learn it, they had their lesson to learn too,
   it's over. If you tell this story, make sure you tell that part too."

   Harry turned to look at Professor Quirrell.

   "You lost," said Professor Quirrell, his voice gentle for the first
   time. It sounded strange coming from the professor, like his voice
   shouldn't even be able to do that.

   Harry had lost. There had been moments when the cold anger had faded
   entirely, replaced by fear, and during those moments he'd begged the
   older Slytherins and he'd meant it...

   "And are you yet alive?" said Professor Quirrell, still with that
   strange gentleness.

   Harry managed to nod.

   "Not all losing is like this," said Professor Quirrell. "There are
   compromises and negotiated surrenders. There are other ways to placate
   bullies. There is a whole art form to manipulating others by letting
   them be dominant over you. But first, losing must be thinkable. Will
   you remember how you lost?"

   "Yes."

   "Will you be able to lose?"

   "I... think so..."

   "I think so too." Professor Quirrell bowed so low that his thin hair
   almost touched the floor. "Congratulations, Harry Potter, you win."

   There was no single source, no first mover, the applause started all at
   once like a massive thunderclap.

   Harry's couldn't keep the shock from his face. He risked a glance at
   his classmates, and he saw their faces showing not pity but awe. The
   applause was coming from Ravenclaw and Gryffindor and Hufflepuff and
   even Slytherin, probably because Draco Malfoy was applauding too. Some
   students were standing up from their chairs and half of Gryffindor was
   standing on their desks.

   So Harry stood there, swaying, letting their respect wash over him,
   feeling stronger, and maybe even a little healed.

   Professor Quirrell waited for the applause to die away. It took quite a
   while.

   "Surprised, Mr. Potter?" Professor Quirrell said. His voice sounded
   amused. "You have just found out that the real world does not always
   work like your worst nightmares. Yes, if you had been some poor
   anonymous boy being abused, then they would probably have respected you
   less afterward, pitied you even as they comforted you from their
   loftier perches. That is human nature, I'm afraid. But you they already
   know for a figure of power. And they saw you confront your fear and
   keep confronting it, even though you could have walked away at any
   time. Did you think less of me when I told you that I had deliberately
   endured being spat upon?"

   Harry felt a burning sensation in his throat and frantically clamped
   down. He didn't trust this miraculous respect enough to start crying
   again in front of it.

   "Your extraordinary achievement in my class deserves an extraordinary
   reward, Harry Potter. Please accept it with my compliments on behalf of
   my House, and remember from this day forward that not all Slytherins
   are alike. There are Slytherins, and then there are Slytherins."
   Professor Quirrell was smiling quite broadly as he said this.
   "Fifty-one points to Ravenclaw."

   There was a shocked pause and then pandemonium broke out among the
   Ravenclaw students, howling and whistling and cheering.

   (And in the same moment Harry felt something wrong about that,
   Professor McGonagall had been right, there should have been
   consequences, there should have been a cost and a price to be paid, you
   couldn't just put everything back the way it was like that -)

   But Harry saw the elated faces in Ravenclaw and knew he couldn't
   possibly say no.

   His brain made a suggestion. It was a good suggestion. Harry could not
   even believe his brain was still keeping him upright, let alone
   producing good suggestions.

   "Professor Quirrell," Harry said, as clearly as he could through his
   burning throat. "You are everything a member of your House should be,
   and I think you must be just what Salazar Slytherin had in mind when he
   helped found Hogwarts. I thank you and your House," Draco was very
   slightly nodding and subtly turning his finger, keep going, "and I
   think this calls for three cheers for Slytherin. With me, everyone?"
   Harry paused. "Huzzah!" Only a few people managed to join in on the
   first try. "Huzzah!" This time most of Ravenclaw was in on it.
   "Huzzah!" That was almost all of Ravenclaw, a scattering of Hufflepuffs
   and around a quarter of Gryffindor.

   Draco's hand moved into a small, quick, thumbs-up gesture.

   Most of the Slytherins had expressions of sheer shock. A few were
   staring at Professor Quirrell in wonder. Blaise Zabini was looking at
   Harry with a calculating, intrigued expression.

   Professor Quirrell bowed. "Thank you, Harry Potter," he said, still
   with that broad smile. He turned to the class. "Now, believe it or not,
   we still have half an hour left in this session, and that is enough to
   introduce the Simple Shield. Mr. Potter, of course, is going off and
   taking a well-earned rest."

   "I can -"

   "Idiot," Professor Quirrell said fondly. The class was already
   laughing. "Your classmates can teach you afterward, or I'll tutor you
   privately if that's what it takes. But right now, you're going through
   the third door from the left in the back of the stage, where you will
   find a bed, an assortment of exceptionally tasty snacks, and some
   extremely light reading from the Hogwarts library. You may not take
   anything else with you, particularly not your textbooks. Now go."

   Harry went.
   Chapter 2: Everything I Believe Is False

   #include "stddisclaimer.h"
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Of course it was my fault. There's no one else here who could be
   responsible for anything."
     __________________________________________________________________

   "Now, just to be clear," Harry said, "if the professor does levitate
   you, Dad, when you know you haven't been attached to any wires, that's
   going to be sufficient evidence. You're not going to turn around and
   say that it's a magician's trick. That wouldn't be fair play. If you
   feel that way, you should say so now, and we can figure out a different
   experiment instead."

   Harry's father, Professor Michael Verres-Evans, rolled his eyes. "Yes,
   Harry."

   "And you, Mum, your theory says that the professor should be able to do
   this, and if that doesn't happen, you'll admit you're mistaken. Nothing
   about how magic doesn't work when people are sceptical of it, or
   anything like that."

   Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall was watching Harry with a
   bemused expression. She looked quite witchy in her black robes and
   pointed hat, but when she spoke she sounded formal and Scottish, which
   didn't go together with the look at all. At first glance she looked
   like someone who ought to cackle and put babies into cauldrons, but the
   whole effect was ruined as soon as she opened her mouth. "Is that
   sufficient, Mr. Potter?" she said. "Shall I go ahead and demonstrate?"

   "Sufficient? Probably not," Harry said. "But at least it will help. Go
   ahead, Deputy Headmistress."

   "Just Professor will do," said she, and then, "Wingardium Leviosa."

   Harry looked at his father.

   "Huh," Harry said.

   His father looked back at him. "Huh," his father echoed.

   Then Professor Verres-Evans looked back at Professor McGonagall. "All
   right, you can put me down now."

   His father was lowered carefully to the ground.

   Harry ruffled a hand through his own hair. Maybe it was just that
   strange part of him which had already been convinced, but... "That's a
   bit of an anticlimax," Harry said. "You'd think there'd be some kind of
   more dramatic mental event associated with updating on an observation
   of infinitesimal probability -" Harry stopped himself. Mum, the witch,
   and even his Dad were giving him that look again. "I mean, with finding
   out that everything I believe is false."

   Seriously, it should have been more dramatic. His brain ought to have
   been flushing its entire current stock of hypotheses about the
   universe, none of which allowed this to happen. But instead his brain
   just seemed to be going, All right, I saw the Hogwarts Professor wave
   her wand and make your father rise into the air, now what?

   The witch-lady was smiling benevolently upon them, looking quite
   amused. "Would you like a further demonstration, Mr. Potter?"

   "You don't have to," Harry said. "We've performed a definitive
   experiment. But..." Harry hesitated. He couldn't help himself.
   Actually, under the circumstances, he shouldn't be helping himself. It
   was right and proper to be curious. "What else can you do?"

   Professor McGonagall turned into a cat.

   Harry scrambled back unthinkingly, backpedalling so fast that he
   tripped over a stray stack of books and landed hard on his bottom with
   a thwack. His hands came down to catch himself without quite reaching
   properly, and there was a warning twinge in his shoulder as the weight
   came down unbraced.

   At once the small tabby cat morphed back up into a robed woman. "I'm
   sorry, Mr. Potter," said the witch, sounding sincere, though the
   corners of her lips were twitching upwards. "I should have warned you."

   Harry was breathing in short gasps. His voice came out choked. "You
   can't DO that!"

   "It's only a Transfiguration," said Professor McGonagall. "An Animagus
   transformation, to be exact."

   "You turned into a cat! A SMALL cat! You violated Conservation of
   Energy! That's not just an arbitrary rule, it's implied by the form of
   the quantum Hamiltonian! Rejecting it destroys unitarity and then you
   get FTL signalling! And cats are COMPLICATED! A human mind can't just
   visualise a whole cat's anatomy and, and all the cat biochemistry, and
   what about the neurology? How can you go on thinking using a cat-sized
   brain?"

   Professor McGonagall's lips were twitching harder now. "Magic."

   "Magic isn't enough to do that! You'd have to be a god!"

   Professor McGonagall blinked. "That's the first time I've ever been
   called that."

   A blur was coming over Harry's vision, as his brain started to
   comprehend what had just broken. The whole idea of a unified universe
   with mathematically regular laws, that was what had been flushed down
   the toilet; the whole notion of physics. Three thousand years of
   resolving big complicated things into smaller pieces, discovering that
   the music of the planets was the same tune as a falling apple, finding
   that the true laws were perfectly universal and had no exceptions
   anywhere and took the form of simple maths governing the smallest
   parts, not to mention that the mind was the brain and the brain was
   made of neurons, a brain was what a person was -

   And then a woman turned into a cat, so much for all that.

   A hundred questions fought for priority over Harry's lips and the
   winner poured out: "And, and what kind of incantation is Wingardium
   Leviosa? Who invents the words to these spells, nursery schoolers?"

   "That will do, Mr. Potter," Professor McGonagall said crisply, though
   her eyes shone with suppressed amusement. "If you wish to learn about
   magic, I suggest that we finalise the paperwork so that you can go to
   Hogwarts."

   "Right," Harry said, somewhat dazed. He pulled his thoughts together.
   The March of Reason would just have to start over, that was all; they
   still had the experimental method and that was the important thing.
   "How do I get to Hogwarts, then?"

   A choked laugh escaped Professor McGonagall, as if extracted from her
   by tweezers.

   "Hold on a moment, Harry," his father said. "Remember why you haven't
   been going to school up until now? What about your condition?"

   Professor McGonagall spun to face Michael. "His condition? What's
   this?"

   "I don't sleep right," Harry said. He waved his hands helplessly. "My
   sleep cycle is twenty-six hours long, I always go to sleep two hours
   later, every day. I can't fall asleep any earlier than that, and then
   the next day I go to sleep two hours later than that. 10PM, 12AM, 2AM,
   4AM, until it goes around the clock. Even if I try to wake up early, it
   makes no difference and I'm a wreck that whole day. That's why I
   haven't been going to a normal school up until now."

   "One of the reasons," said his mother. Harry shot her a glare.

   McGonagall gave a long hmmmmm. "I can't recall hearing about such a
   condition before..." she said slowly. "I'll check with Madam Pomfrey to
   see if she knows any remedies." Then her face brightened. "No, I'm sure
   this won't be a problem - I'll find a solution in time. Now," and her
   gaze sharpened again, "what are these other reasons?"

   Harry sent his parents a glare. "I am a conscientious objector to child
   conscription, on grounds that I should not have to suffer for a
   disintegrating school system's failure to provide teachers or study
   materials of even minimally adequate quality."

   Both of Harry's parents howled with laughter at that, like they thought
   it was all a big joke. "Oh," said Harry's father, eyes bright, "is that
   why you bit a maths teacher in third year."

   "She didn't know what a logarithm was!"

   "Of course," seconded Harry's mother. "Biting her was a very mature
   response to that."

   Harry's father nodded. "A well-considered policy for addressing the
   problem of teachers who don't understand logarithms."

   "I was seven years old! How long are you going to keep on bringing that
   up?"

   "I know," said his mother sympathetically, "you bite one maths teacher
   and they never let you forget it, do they?"

   Harry turned to Professor McGonagall. "There! You see what I have to
   deal with?"

   "Excuse me," said Petunia, and fled through the backdoor into the
   garden, from which her screams of laughter were clearly audible.

   "There, ah, there," Professor McGonagall seemed to be having trouble
   speaking for some reason, "there is to be no biting of teachers at
   Hogwarts, is that quite clear, Mr. Potter?"

   Harry scowled at her. "Fine, I won't bite anyone who doesn't bite me
   first."

   Professor Michael Verres-Evans also had to leave the room briefly upon
   hearing that.

   "Well," Professor McGonagall sighed, after Harry's parents had composed
   themselves and returned. "Well. I think, under the circumstances, that
   I should avoid taking you to purchase your study materials until a day
   or two before school begins."

   "What? Why? The other children already know magic, don't they? I have
   to start catching up right away!"

   "Rest assured, Mr. Potter," replied Professor McGonagall, "Hogwarts is
   quite capable of teaching the basics. And I suspect, Mr. Potter, that
   if I leave you alone for two months with your schoolbooks, even without
   a wand, I will return to this house only to find a crater billowing
   purple smoke, a depopulated city surrounding it and a plague of flaming
   zebras terrorising what remains of England."

   Harry's mother and father nodded in perfect unison.

   "Mum! Dad!"